14 Core Rules - Trench Crusade core rules The first section of the rulebook is called the Core Rules, and explains how to play Trench Crusade in a quick and easy to use format. The Core Rules are followed by the Comprehensive Rules section, which provides more detailed explanations of the rules and additional information about how they work. If you are using the Core Rules and encounter a situation that you are not sure how to resolve, read the Comprehensive Rules to find the answer. A game of Trench Crusade is divided into Turns, which are split into an Initiative Phase, an Activation Phase, and a Morale Phase. The In itiative Phase The player with the lowest number of models in their Warband has the Initiative and can choose to Activate a model first or second. If both players have the same number of models, each player rolls a dice and whoever rolls the highest has the Initiative. The Ac tivation Phase When it is your turn to Activate a model, you must choose a model in your Warband that has not yet been Activated and Activate it. Your opponent must then Activate a model, and so on, back and forth until all models have been Activated. A model cannot be Activated more than once per Turn. ACTIONS The Activated model can take the following ACTIONS once each, in any order you wish: Move or Charge or Retreat: You can use an ACTION to Move or Charge or Retreat with your model, but not more than one. * * Move: You can move your model a number of inches equal to its Movement Characteristic in any direction (no roll is required). Obstacles up to 1” high can be crossed without penalty, and your model can climb sheer surfaces if you first pass a Risky Success Roll. Difficult terrain is crossed at half speed. A Move ACTION cannot be used to move a model within 1” of an enemy model (you must use a Charge A ction instead). * * Charge: Pick an enemy model that is visible to your model and within 12” of it as the target of the charge. Then roll a dice, add the result to your model’s Movement Characteristic and move it towards the target. If your model finishes its move within 1” of the target, it can Fight ( ▶ see Fight) . * * Retreat: You can only move a model that is within 1” of an enemy by taking a Retreat ACTION . A retreating model moves a number of inches equal to its Movement Characteristic in any direction but it must end its retreat move more than 1” away from all enemy models. Your opponent can take a Fight ACTION with 1 Melee Weapon before the retreating model is moved away. If this takes your model Down or Out of Action i t is not moved. Ac tivation Phase Morale Phase Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios I nitiative Phase


15 Core Rules - Trench Crusade Dash: A Dash ACTION can be carried out in addition to a Move, Charge or Retreat ACTION . You can move your model a number of inches equal to its Movement Characteristic in any direction, but you must take a Risky Success Roll for the model first. If you succeed, your model can move (it cannot charge or retreat). If you fail, the model’s A ctivation ends. Shoot: You can make a Ranged Attack with your model if it is more than 1” from an enemy and has a Ranged Weapon ( ▶ see Ranged Attacks) . Your model cannot Shoot and take a Charge or Fight ACTION in the same Activation, unless it uses a weapon that has the A SSAULT Keyword. Fight: You can make a Melee Attack with your model if it is within 1” of an enemy and has a Melee Weapon ( ▶ see Melee Attacks) . Other: Some models have other ACTIONS they can take during their Activations ( ▶ see Starting a Warband in Warbands of Trench Crusade) Success Rolls Many of the ACTIONS you take with a model require a Success Roll to be made. To take a Success Roll, roll two dice, add any +DICE or -DICE to the roll as described below, pick the two highest (or lowest if any -DICE were used), add them together, and consult the table below to see if you have succeeded. The instructions for the task you are carrying out will tell you what happens if you succeed or fail. If you are taking a Risky Success Roll and you fail, the model’s Activation is over and your opponent can now Activate one o f their models! Success Table Roll Result 2-6 Failure. 7-11 Success. 12+ Critical Success. Add +1 INJURY DICE to Ranged or Melee Attacks if you roll a Cr itical Success. +Dice and -Dice Rules often have modifiers to Success Rolls marked as +DICE and -DICE . These are shown in the format “ +1 DICE ” or “ -1 DICE ”. For each +DICE , add 1 dice to the Success Roll. Then roll all the dice and pick the 2 highest rolls. For example, +1 DICE means you roll 3 dice and pick the 2 highest. If +2 DICE are added, roll 4 dice and pick the 2 high est, and so on. The -DICE works in reverse. For each -DICE , add 1 dice to the Success Roll and pick the 2 lowest numbers. For example, -1 DICE means you roll 3 dice and pic k the 2 lowest. If both +DICE and -DICE are added to the same Success Roll, remove pairs of +DICE and -DICE until only one type is remaining. For example, if a roll had +2 DICE and -1 DICE , one of the +1 DICE and the -1 DICE would be removed, leaving +1 DICE to be add ed to the roll. I nitiative Phase Morale Phase Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios A ctivation Phase


16 Core Rules - Trench Crusade COMBAT Combat is divided into Ranged Attacks and Melee Attacks. Ranged Attacks are carried out when you take a Shoot ACTION with a model, and Melee Attacks when you take a Fight ACTIO N with a model. RANGED ATTACKS 1. Choose a Ranged Weapon and then pick a target that is visible to your model and in range of the weapon. 2. Take a Success Roll for the a ttacking model. 3. If the roll is a Failure, the attack misses and has no effect. If the roll is a Success it hits, so make an Injury Roll roll for the target. Add +1 INJURY DICE if the attack was a Cr itical Success. SHOO TING INTO MELEE If a target is within 1” of any friendly models, roll a dice to determine who is attacked: on a 1 – 3 you must target a friendly model; on a 4 – 6 you can target an enemy model. Take a Success Roll as normal once the target has b een determined. RANGED A TTACK MODIFIERS Shooting from an elevated position: Add +1 DICE if the attacking model is at least 3” higher t han the target. Cover: Add -1 DICE if the target is in cover. A model is in cover if it is in contact with a terrain piece that is at least ½” high and as wide as its base, and the terrain piece lies between it and the a ttacking model. Long Range: Add -1 DICE if the range to the target is more than half of the weapon’s maximum range. I nitiative Phase Morale Phase Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios A ctivation Phase VP


17 Core Rules - Trench Crusade MELEE ATTACKS 1. Choose a Melee Weapon and pick a target within 1” of your model. 2. Take a Success Roll for the a ttacking model. 3. If the roll is a Failure, the attack misses and has no effect. If the roll is a Success it hits, so make an Injury Roll roll for the target. Add +1 INJURY DICE if the attack was a Cr itical Success. MELEE A TTACK MODIFIERS The following modifiers are cumulative: Multiple Melee Weapons: If your model is armed with two Melee Weapons, it may attack with both, one after the other in the order of your choice. Add -1 DICE for the second attack. Fear: Add -1 DICE if your opponent has the FEAR Keyword. If both models cause FEAR the effect is cancelled out. Defended Obstacle: Add -1 DICE if the target is in cover. A model is in cover if it is in contact with a terrain piece that is at least ½” high and as wide as its base, and the terrain piece lies between it and the a ttacking model. Diving Charge: A model may attempt a Diving Charge against enemy models that are at least 3” below it. Take a Risky Success Roll for the model. If the roll is a Failure the model is taken Down, and a Falling Injury Roll must then be taken for the model ( ▶ see Falling). If the roll is a Success, you do not have to take a Falling Injury Roll for the model, and you can add +1 DICE to the next Melee Attack that t he model makes. Falling When a model Jumps, Dives, or Falls 3” or more, there is a chance it will be injured. To see if this happens, make an Injury Roll for the model, and add +1 INJURY DICE for every 3” that the model fell. VP I nitiative Phase Morale Phase Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios A ctivation Phase


18 Core Rules - Trench Crusade Injury Rolls To make an Injury Roll, roll two dice and add any +INJURY DICE or -INJURY DICE to the roll. +/ -INJURY DICE work in the same way as +/- DICE but modify Injury Rolls instead of Success Rolls. Pick the two highest dice (or lowest if any -INJURY DICE were used). Any INJURY MODIFIERS that apply are then added to the roll, and the modified roll is looked up on t he table below: Injury Table Roll Result 1 or less No Effect. The model is unharmed, and the injury has no effect. 2-6 Minor Hit. Place 1 BLOOD MARKER nex t to the model. 7-8 Down. Place 1 BLOOD MARKER next to the model and mark them as being Down ( ▶ see below). If the model is already Down, place 2 BLOOD MARKERS next to the mode l instead of 1. 9+ Out of Action. The model has been seriously injured or killed and is remo ved from play. Injury Roll and R esult Modifiers The following modifiers are cumulative. The maximum -INJURY MODIFIER cannot be more th an -3 in total. * * Blessing Markers: Add -1 INJURY DICE for each BLESSING MARKER that is spent. * * Blood Markers: Add +1 INJURY DICE for each BLOOD MARKER that is spent. * * Critical Success: Add +1 INJURY DICE . * * Down: Add +1 INJURY DICE for a Melee Attack if the target is Down. * * Abilities or Keywords: Add any +/ -INJU RY DICE and/or any +/ -INJURY MODIFIERS for abiliti es or Keywords that apply to t he Injury Roll. * * Armour Characteristic: Add the - INJURY MODIFIER of the model’s Armour Character istic (if any). * * Battlekit: Add the -INJURY MO DIFIER for the model’s Battlekit (e.g. Armour, Shield, etc.). MM I nitiative Phase Morale Phase Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios A ctivation Phase


19 Core Rules - Trench Crusade BLOOD MARKERS During a battle your warriors can be wounded. Wounds are tracked with BLOOD MARKERS . A model cannot have more than 6 BLOOD MARKERS at any one time. We recommend using a red dice to keep track of the number of BLOOD MARK ERS on a model. Each time one of your models suffers a wound, place a BLOOD MARKER next to it. When you make a Success Roll for the model, your opponent may choose to spend one or more BLOOD MARKERS t o add -1 DICE . In addition, each time your opponent makes an Injury Roll for the model, they may choose to spend one or more BLOOD MARKERS to add +1 INJURY DICE , making a serious injury f ar more likely. BLOODBATH ROLLS When you make an Injury Roll for an enemy model, you can spend 6 BLOOD MARKERS (or 3 BLOOD MARKERS if the target is Down) to convert the Injury Roll to a Bloodbath Roll. To make a Bloodbath Roll, roll 3 dice and add all three of them together, and then look up the roll on th e Injury Table. GD I nitiative Phase Morale Phase Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios A ctivation Phase


20 Core Rules - Trench Crusade B LESSING MARKERS BLESSING MARKERS are similar to BLOOD MARKERS , but specifically aid Success Rolls for the model. Each time one of your models receives a blessing, place a BLESSING MARKER next to it. When you take a Success Roll for the model, you may choose to spend one or more BLESSING MARKERS to add +1 DICE , and each time an Injury Roll is made for the model you may spend one or more BLESSING MARKERS to add -1 INJURY DICE . DOWN RESULTS You can show that a model is Down by placing the model on its side. The following rules apply to a mode l that is Down: * * If a model is taken Down during its Activation, its Activation end s immediately. * * Add -1 DICE to any rolls you take for a mode l that is Down. * * Add +1 INJURY DICE for a Melee Attack if the target is Down. * * Until a model that is Down stands back up, it cannot be moved for any reason unless it falls ( ▶ see Falling) . * * A model that is Down stands back up when it is next Activated. However, its Movement Characteristic is halved for the rest of the Activation (including the bonus for charging). ENDING THE A CTIVATION PHASE Once you have taken any and all ACTIONS you wish, or have failed a Risky Success Roll, your model’s Activation ends. Your opponent can now Activate one of their models. The players then alternate Activating models in this fashion until one player runs out of models to Activate. Their opponent can then Activate their remaining models one after the other until they have all been Activated, then proceed to th e Morale Phase. AD I nitiative Phase Morale Phase Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios A ctivation Phase


21 Core Rules - Trench Crusade T he Morale Phase In the Morale Phase, if half the models in your Warband are Down or Out of Action (rounded up), you must make a Success Roll. If the roll is a Success, your Warband carries on normally. If the roll is a Failure, your Warband becomes Shaken. SHAKEN WARBANDS All Success Rolls made for a Shaken Warband are treated as Risky Success Rolls. In the Morale Phase at the end of the next Turn you must make another Success Roll for your Warband, even if less than half its models are Down or Out of Action. If you succeed, your Warband is no longer Shaken (though it may become so again if you fail a Morale check in a future turn). However, if you fail your Warband flees, and you immediately lose the game! ENDING THE TURN After the Morale Phase the Turn ends and a new one begins. MM I nitiative Phase Ac tivation Phase Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Morale Phase