58 Terrain- Trench Crusade A Trench Crus ade battlefield T rench crusade T errain Just as a real battlefield would have terrain features such as buildings, hills and forests, the battlefield for a game of Trench Crusade will need its own terrain features to provide cover for the warriors in your Warband. The terrain you place on the battlefield is made up of individual models that are called terrain pieces. The Battlefield The area on which you play your game is referred to as the battlefield. Before you can set up the terrain for your game, you will need a battlefield to place it on. Most games of Trench Crusade can be played on a dining table, but some require an area that is 36” or 48” square. If you are going to play one of these larger scenarios, you may need to make a special gaming board. For all of the other scenarios, a standard dining table will provide more than enough space for your game. Terrain Pieces In addition to the battlefield you will need as many terrain pieces as you can lay your hands on. You can purchase plastic terrain models suitable for use as terrain pieces in much the same way as you can the models that make up the warriors in your Warband. We would recommend you use the models from the growing range of Trench Crusade terrain for your games, but we won’t mind if you decide to use another company’s kits instead of our own. Many players enjoy scratch-building the terrain pieces for their games from modelling materials like plasticard, foam board and foam card, PVA glue and modelling sand. Suffice to say that a quick search on the internet will bring up plenty of examples of terrain models that you can use, and introductory articles about how to scratch -build terrain. Battlefield Archetypes Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Terrain Pieces Battlefield


59 Terrain- Trench Crusade An improvi sed battlefield Don’t worry if you are new to tabletop wargaming and have not yet had a chance to build up a large collection of terrain. Just use any terrain pieces you have available, and/or supplement them with household items that can stand-in for actual terrain pieces. For example, you could use books to represent low hills, pens to represent walls, rocks collected from your garden or a park as boulders, twigs to represent fallen trees and so on. Placing a thick blanket over some books will create a rolling landscape with hills and gullies to fight over. The important thing to appreciate is that it is absolutely okay to use whatever you have to hand in order to play a game of Trench Crusade; after all, the Lord took six days to create everything, so don’t worry if it takes a little time to create your ideal battlefield! Don’t worry, very soon your collection of terrain pieces will grow and you will be able to return your books to their shelves and your rocks and twigs to the garden (though you may well find yourself looking back very fondly on those early games and the improvised terrain that you used in order to play them). Battlefield Battlefield Archetypes Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Terrain Pieces


60 Terrain- Trench Crusade S TANDARD TERRAIN Once you have set up your battlefield, it’s a sensible idea to discuss each terrain piece with your opponent to agree what type each will be treated as. Because terrain can be represented in such a wide variety of ways, it’s not possible for us to list every terrain piece you might want to use in a game. Instead we have come up with the following list, which covers the vast majority of the types of terrain used for games of Trench Crusade. After the list you will find more detailed explanation s of each type: * * Open Terrain * * Landmarks (statues, shrines , altars, etc.) * * Areas of Dangerous Terrain (swamp, ba rbed wire etc.) * * Areas of Difficult Terrain (rubble, craters, fal len trees etc.) * * Areas of Impassable Terrain (lava or hellfire, sheer cli ff faces, etc.) * * Hills * * Linear Terrain (walls , hedges, etc.) * * Trenches * * Ruined Buildings (a tow er, house etc.) * * Corner Ruins (two ruined walls in an L shape) * * Riv ers and Streams OPEN TERRAIN Open terrain is any area of a battlefield where there is nothing to impede a model, and it is the most common terrain type in Trench Crusade. Models can be moved freely acros s Open terrain. LANDMARKS A landmark is a single piece of Impassable terrain, such as a statue, shrine or altar. They cannot be moved across except by models that have the FLYING Keyword. If a scenario includes any Markers, then the players can agree to use a suitable landmark terrain piece in the place of the Markers. It makes a game more interesting to know that you are fighting to capture a statue or shrine, rather than an anonymous car dboard counter! Battlefield Battlefield Archetypes Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Terrain Pieces


61 Terrain- Trench Crusade MK An example of dif ficult terrain. MK An example of a hill w ith a landmark. AREA TERRAIN Area terrain is a catch-all term for areas of Dangerous, Difficult and Impassable terrain. It’s important to agree where the boundary of a piece of area terrain lies so that you can tell if a model has strayed into it. This can be determined by either mounting the terrain on a suitable base, marking its boundary with a small piece of cotton, or simply making sure that you and your opponent agree where the boundary lies. HILLS A hill can be of any size or height, though we recommend that it not be more than 12” across at its widest point. If the hill is high enough it will block Line of Sight to models on the far side of the hill, and may give a model a height advantage when they make an attack. Hills are usually treated as being open terrain for the purposes of movement, but other pieces of terrain can be placed upon it, such as patches of rocky ground, barbed wire, trenches, or ruins. The players should agree what type of terrain any such areas will be considered as. Battlefield Battlefield Archetypes Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Terrain Pieces


62 Terrain- Trench Crusade LINEAR TERRAIN Linear terrain includes obstacles such as walls and hedges. It can have bends and kinks, and several sections can be joined together to create a long set of walls or hedges. Linear terrain can be crossed as if it is Open ground if it is up to 1” high, but must be climbed using the rules for climbing sheer surfaces if it is mor e than 1” high. TRENCH SECTIONS Trenches are a common piece of terrain on Trench Crusade battlefields, for obvious reasons! Trenches are divided into trench sections that may be from 4” to 12” long and from 2” to 4” wide. A trench section can have bends and kinks, and several sections can be joined together to create a trench line. Trench sections can also include crossroads and/or T-junctions where two lines of trenches meet each other. The side of a trench can be crossed as if it is Open terrain if it is less than 3” high, but must be Climbed or Jumped Down from if it is at least 3” high ( ▶ see “Climbing & Jumping”) . A model can attempt to Jump from one side of a trench to the other using the rules for jumping over a gap ( ▶ see Jumpi ng over a Gap) . MK An example of a trench section. MK An example of linear terrain. Battlefield Battlefield Archetypes Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Terrain Pieces


63 Terrain- Trench Crusade MK An example of a r uined building. R UINED BUILDINGS A ruined building is a single terrain piece that can be any size or height, though we recommend that it not be more than 12” across at its widest point. Its walls can be climbed using the rules for climbing a sheer surface. Any stairs or floors that remain can be crossed as if they were open ground, while any piles of rubble will be Dif ficult terrain. CORNER RUINS A corner ruin consists of two ruined walls that are each up to 6” long, placed together roughly in the shape of an L or T. Corner ruins are a popular form of terrain because they are easy to make and work really well in games of Trench Crusade. A corner ruin can include the remains of floors from the upper levels of the original building, and if they do, models can Climb up to them using the rules for climbing sheer surfaces. Any piles of rubble will be Dif ficult terrain. R IVERS & STREAMS A river must enter on one edge of the battlefield and exit on another. Streams must enter from an edge, and may either leave by a different edge or end in a swamp or lake. A stream is Difficult terrain, and a river is Dangerous terrain. Both should include one or more crossing points, such as bridges or fords, that models can treat a s Open terrain. Important: You can only use a river or stream in a game if the scenario says you must do so, or if both players agree to include a river or stream in the game they are about to play. Battlefield Battlefield Archetypes Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Terrain Pieces


64 Terrain- Trench Crusade UNIQUE TERRAIN PIECES If you plan to use any unique terrain pieces that aren’t included in the standard terrain list, then you will need to chat with your opponent before the game to decide how you will use it in the game (don’t worry, this is usually a pretty straightforward thing to establish!). Sc attered Terrain Terrain that is too small to have an effect on the battle, or is otherwise inconsequential, is called scattered terrain. Examples of scattered terrain include individual trees, boxes or crates, signposts and so on. Scattered terrain is purely decorative; any amount can be added to a battlefield, and you can ignore it or move it out of the way when setting up other terrain pieces, moving models, making attacks or check ing visibility. I ntact Buildings We recommend that you only include ruined buildings in your games, as they are much more practical to use during a game. However, if you wish you can use intact buildings such as large bunkers. If you do, you must either agree to treat them as Impassable terrain, or you will need to draw up detailed floor plans of the interior. When a model enters an intact building, transfer it to the floor plan and carry on its move from there. When you use intact buildings in this way a certain amount of common sense and restraint will need to be exercised - for example, you shouldn’t move a model through an entrance that is too small for it, and so on. Trench Crusad e Gaming Boards To make a gaming board, simply purchase a piece of MDF , chipboard, or marine plywood that is 48” square. MDF , chipboard and plywood often come in 8’ by 4’ sheets, in which case you simply need to ask the supplier to cut the board in half, giving you two boards to play on. Your new gaming board can then be placed directly on your dining table, though you may want to put a tablecloth on the table to pre vent scratches. You can either play on the plain wooden board covered with a blanket, or paint it with a combination of brown and green emulsion paints to represent the muddy fields that Trench Crusade battles are fought upon. Some players take this a step further by gluing 2” foamboard onto the gaming table, and then carving trenches and craters into the foam. Some examples of what can be achieved are shown throug hout this book. Battlefield Battlefield Archetypes Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Terrain Pieces


65 Terrain- Trench Crusade Battlef ield Archetypes Trench Crusade games are fought across all kinds of terrain, from the highest mountain passes to shadowed subterranean depths, but for the purposes of the scenarios in this rulebook we have focused on three battlefield archetypes: No Man’s Land; Decimated Ruins; and (of course) Trench Lines. The scenario you are using for the game will clearly explain what type of battlefield archetype is to be used. The terrain for the scenario can then be set up using the inst ructions below. NO MAN’S LAND No Man’s Land is the area that lies between the trench systems of the Great War. It is a stark and deadly place, criss-crossed with fire from machine-guns and artillery, and with only occasional ruined buildings, craters, fallen trees, wrecked tanks or cannons, and pock-marked shrines to provide cover. This makes it a dangerous place to enter in daylight, so many battles that take place in No Man’s Land will be night-time raids where the cover of darkness can be used to provide some measure of protection against long-range enemy gunfire. No Man’s Land Terrain Pieces The players roll-off ( ▶ see Rolling-Off ) , and the winner sets up the terrain for the game. The terrain pieces for a game taking place in No Man’s Land must be chosen from the following list: * * Trenches * * R uined Buildings * * Ruined Corners * * Hills * * Areas of Dangerous Terrain (barbed wire, swam py ground etc.) * * Areas of Difficult Terrain (craters, rubble, fall en trees, etc.) * * Landmarks (statues, shrines, altars, etc.) Number of Terrain Pieces We recommend that you use at least 2 pieces of each terrain type if you can. Count pieces that are more than 8” across or more than 8” long as being 2 pieces of terrain towards this number rather than only 1. However, this is only a guideline, and you can use any number of terrain pieces in a No Man’s Land scenario, from there being almost no terrain at all, to there being as much terrain as can be fitted onto the battlefield (without breaking any of the following restrictions on how terrain pieces can be plac ed, of course!) Terrain Set-Up The terrain pieces must be set up in such a way that each piece of terrain is at least 3” away from any other pieces of terrain. Trenches can only be set up if they are wholly within one of the Deployment Zones shown on the map for the scenario that i s being played. Battlefield Terrain Pieces Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Battlefield Archetypes


66 Terrain- Trench Crusade DECIMATED RUINS Battles are frequently fought to capture cities, towns and villages located between, or just behind, the trench lines of the opposing Warbands. The constant warfare quickly reduces once-proud buildings to ruins, amongst which Warbands fight each other in brutal short-ranged engagements. Tactical and strategic success can be measured by who takes control of the ruined buildings, piles of rubble and wrecked vehicles that litter the shatt ered landscape. Decimated Ruins Terrain Pieces The players roll-off, and the winner sets up the terrain for the game. The terrain pieces for a game taking place in Decimated Ruins must be chosen from the following list: * * R uined Buildings * * Ruined Corners * * Areas of Dangerous Terrain (barbed wire, m inefields etc.) * * Areas of Difficult Terrain (craters , rubble, etc.) * * Landmarks (statues, wrecked vehicles, etc.) Number of Terrain Pieces You will need at least 6 ruined buildings and at least 2 pieces of each other sort of terrain. Count pieces that are more than 8” across or more than 8” long as being 2 pieces of terrain towards this number rath er than only 1. Terrain Set-Up Any ruins that are going to be used for the game must be set up first. The first ruined building or corner can be set up anywhere on the battlefield. Each subsequent ruined building or corner must be placed between 3” and 9” away from any other ruined building or corner. After all of the ruins have been set up, any other terrain can be added to the battlefield. Terrain apart from ruins can be set up anywhere on the battlefield that is at least 3” away from any other terrain pieces. Battlefield Terrain Pieces Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Battlefield Archetypes


67 Terrain- Trench Crusade TRENCH LINES Behind No Man’s Land lies a system of interconnected Trench Lines, often several miles thick. Trench Lines are made up of interlinked trenches that are deep enough to shield most warriors from enemy fire. Because of this combat usually takes place in the trenches themselves, though sometimes a brave warrior will risk clambering out of a trench and running across open ground in order to outflank a strong enemy position. Trench Lines Terrain Pieces The players roll-off, and the winner sets up the terrain for the game. The terrain pieces for a game taking place in Trench Lines must be chosen from the following list: * * Trenches * * Ruined Corners * * Areas of Dangerous Terrain (barbed wire, m inefields etc.) * * Areas of Difficult Terrain (craters , rubble, etc.) * * Landmarks (statues, shrines, wrecked v ehicles, etc.) Number of Terrain Pieces You will need enough Trenches to reach from one edge of the battlefield to the opposite edge. In addition to the trenches, you will need at least 2 pieces of each other sort of terrain. Count pieces that are more than 8” across or more than 8” long as being 2 pieces of terrain towards this number rath er than only 1. Terrain Set-Up Any trenches that are going to be used for the game must b e set up first. The first trench must be set up so that it enters from one edge of the battlefield, and subsequent trenches must connect with an existing trench. Once all of the trenches have been set up they must extend from the edge of the battlefield, from where the first trench was placed, to the opposite edge of the battlefield, so that a model could enter on one edge and exit off the other without ever having to leave a trench. After all of the trenches have been set up, any other terrain can be set up anywhere on the battlefield that is at least 1” from any trenches and 3” away from any other terrain pieces. Battlefield Terrain Pieces Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Battlefield Archetypes