68 BaThlekit- Trench Crusade ba TT leki T Models usually carry Battlekit that helps them fight, protects them from harm, and grants them special benefits or abilities. This section of the rules presents Battlekit Descriptions for the most common types of Battlekit. The Faction List documents include additional Battlekit available exclusively to members of the Faction ( ▶ S ee Warbands of T rench Crusade) . BATTLEK IT DESCRIPTIONS Each piece of Battlekit has a Battlekit Description that contains the followi ng information: * * Name: The name of the piec e of Battlekit. * * Description : A description of the Battlekit and how it is used. * * Battlekit Profile: A Battlekit Profile includes the name of the Battlekit and the followi ng information: * Type: What the Battlek it is used for: * 1-Handed: A 1 -Handed Weapon. * 2-Handed: A 2 -Handed Weapon. * Grenade: Grenades can be throw n at the enemy. * Armour: Armour that will protect the m odel from harm. * Shield: A Shield is also used to protect the m odel from harm. * Equipment: A piece of Battlekit other than those listed above that can be carrie d by the model. * Special: A piece of Battlekit that is used in such a way that it does not fit neatly into any ot her categories. * Range: Indicates the distance at which the Battlekit can be used to make an attack. * Ranged Weapons: If the range is a value in inches (e.g. 12”), the Battlekit is a Ranged Weapon and can be used to make Ranged Attacks. * Melee Weapons: If the range is listed as “ Melee” then the Weapon is a Melee Weapon and can be used to make Melee Attacks against targets w ithin 1” of it. * Dual-purpose: If the range is a value in inches followed by Melee (e.g. 12”/Melee), then the Battlekit can be used as both a Ranged Weapon and a Melee Weapon. * Other: If the range is listed as “-” the Battlekit cannot be used to make an attack. * Keywords: Any Keywords that apply to the piec e of Battlekit. * Weapon Keywords: Keywords for 1-Handed or 2-Handed Weapons and Grenades apply to attacks made by the model that has the weapon (ignore them at al l other times). * Armour & Shield Keywords: Keywords for Armour and Shields apply to Injury Rolls for the model that has the Armour and/or Shield (ignore them at a ll other times) * Other Battlekit Keywords: Keywords for other Battlekit are added to the Keywords found on the Profile for the model. They apply all of the time unless stated specific ally otherwise. * * Special Rules: Some Battlekit has special rules that apply exclusively to it. Special rules appear below the Bat tlekit Profile. Ranged Weapons Melee Weapons Grenades Shields Armour Equipment Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Battlekit


69 BaThlekit- Trench Crusade Weapon Dic e & Injury Dice Note that if a Weapon has the +/- DICE Keyword, then the Keyword only applies to the Success Rolls for attacks made by the weapon. It does not apply to any other sort of Success Roll, or to Injury Rolls. By the same token, if a Weapon has the +/- INJURY DICE Keyword, then the Keyword only applies to Injury Rolls for attacks made by the weapon. It does not apply to any other sort of Injury Roll, or to Success Rolls. B ATTLEKIT LIMITS Unless otherwise stated a model is limited to the follo wing Battlekit: * * One 2-Handed Ranged Weapon or two 1-Handed Ranged Weapons. * * One 2-Handed Melee Weapon or two 1-Handed Melee Weapons. * * One t ype of Grenade. * * One suit of Armour. * * One Shield ( ▶ see additional restr ictions below). * * Any number of pieces of Equipment or Special Battlekit. A Model cannot have two or more pieces of Equipment or Special Battlekit with the same Name. Shields A Shield requires one hand to carry and cannot be unequipped. As a result, if a model has a Shield, the following restrictions apply to the other Battleki t it can carry: * * It may carry a maximum of one 1-Handed Melee and Rang ed Weapon each. * * It cannot carry a 2-Handed Weapon unless the Weapon and the Shield both have the Shield Combo stipulation ( ▶ see Warbands of T rench Crusade). Dual-Pu rpose Battlekit Dual-Purpose Battlekit can be used in two different ways. For example, a Pistol can be used as a Ranged Weapon or a Melee Weapon. However, it still only counts as a single 1-Handed or 2-Hand Weapon. So a Pistol counts as a single 1-Handed Weapon when determining how many Weapons a model can have. Two Hands, One Head and a Body Unless otherwise stated, a model is a ssumed to have: * * Two hands to carry weapons and equipment. * * One head for we aring a helmet. * * One body that can be cov ered by armour. In addition a model is assumed to have enough belts, backpacks and pouches to carry Grenades and any other Equipmen t it possesses. All Weapon entries specify whether they require one or two hands to use. A model may freely switch between Ranged and Melee Weapons between ACTIONS , slinging unused weapons over the shoulder or stowing them in a holster or scab bard as needed. Ranged Weapons Melee Weapons Grenades Shields Armour Equipment Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Battlekit


70 BaThlekit- Trench Crusade Ranged Weapons Ranged Weapons can be used to perform a Ranged Attack ( ▶ see Ranged Attacks) . Ranged Weapons cannot be used to make a Melee Attack unless they have the word “Melee” noted under their Range on their Profile. Anti -Materiel Rifle Enormous long rifles designed to take out heavily armoured targets, vehicles and strongpoints. With the powerful armour available to the armies of the Great war, these terrifying weapons are much in demand. A downside is their enormous weight and terrifying recoil, and thus they are most often used by Communicants or Anointed who possess the supernatural strength to wiel d such weapons. Type Range Keywords 2-Handed 36’’ +1 INJURY DICE , C RITICAL , HEAVY , IGNORE ARMOUR A utomatic Pistol Automatic pistols are symbols of prestige owing to their rarity and cost. They are excellent weapons when storming trenches or fighting in hand-to-hand combat. They boast a high rate of fire, though they can be hard to control even for the best sharpshooters since they usuall y lack a stock. Type Range Keywords 1-Handed 12”/Melee ASSAULT , AUTO MATIC 2, PISTOL Automatic Rifle A marvel of modern engineering, only a few prototypes exist. It has a high rate of fire and can be qui ckly re-loaded. Type Range Keywords 2-Handed 24” ASSAU LT , AUTOMATIC 2 * * Focused Fire: When this Weapon is used to make 2 Ranged Attacks, the same enemy model must be the target o f both attacks. Au tomatic Shotgun This shotgun is equipped with an auto-loader, a recent invention by the Prussian engineering corps of Königsberg. It is ideal for close quarter combat thanks to its high rate of power and accuracy. The technology has not been perfected, however, and sometimes leads to mis feeds and jams. Type Range Keywords 2-Handed 12” +1 DICE , A SSAULT , SHOTGUN Melee Weapons Battlekit Grenades Shields Armour Equipment Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Ranged Weapons


71 BaThlekit- Trench Crusade Blunderbuss A firearm of a bygone era, loaded with rusty nails, lead shot, grenade shrapnel an d shell pieces. Type Range Keywords 2-Handed 10” SHRAPNEL Bo lt-Action Rifle The workhorse of the Great War. Sturdy, highly reliable and reasonably accurate, it is no surprise that most of the infantry of the Great War carry this battl efield classic. Type Range Keywords 2-Handed 24” - Flamethrower A flamethrower is a terrifying Weapon capable of projecting great streams of fire and flammable liquids at a distance. It is ideal for clearing bunkers, trenches and other fortifications, killing in a most horrific way. Consequently, it is greatly favoured by the Heretic forces. Type Range Keywords 2-Handed 8’’ -1 INJURY DICE, FIRE, FLAMETHROWER , IGNORE ARMOUR G renade Launcher Modifications of great siege rifles designed to lob grenades over long distances. Type Range Keywords 2-Handed 36” BLAST 3” , HEAVY , IGNORE COVER , SHRAPNEL Hea vy Flamethrower These massive flamethrowers are normally mounted on armoured vehicles, but those possessing uncanny strength may use them as in fantry weapons. Type Range Keywords 2-Handed 10’’ -1 INJURY DICE , AU TOMATIC 2, FIRE , FLAMET HROWER , HEAVY , IGNORE ARMOUR Melee Weapons Battlekit Grenades Shields Armour Equipment Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Ranged Weapons


72 BaThlekit- Trench Crusade Heavy Shotgun This massive 8 bore shotgun is used to take down extremely powerful and large opponents at short range. It is known as a “Wolf-Killer” in New Antioch as it is the weapon favoured by the soldiery of the Duke to take down the Heretic War Wolf Assault Beasts. Heavy shotguns use tungsten-orichalcum alloy shot which explains their enormous stopping power a t short ranges. Type Range Keywords 2-Handed 12” +1 DICE, +1 INJURY DICE, HEAVY , SHOTGUN * * Tungsten-orichalcum Alloy Shot: Add +1 INJURY DICE to rolls for Ranged Attacks made by this Weapon at Short Range. Machine Gun Machine guns are lethal fully-automatic firearms, capable of mowing down entire ranks of infantry from afar. The firing rate depends on the lock assembly used but averages 500 rou nds per minute. Type Range Keywords 2-Handed 36” AUTOMATIC 3 , HEAVY , RELOAD Musket A primitive weapon from a bygone age, the musket is a smooth bore long rifle that shoots lead balls. It still sees widespread use due to its simple construction and low price. Type Range Keywords 2-Handed 18” -1 INJURY DICE Pistol Pistols come in a staggering variety, ranging from revolvers to semi-automatic pistols. Heretic forges produce their own, often highly elaborate sidearms. They see extensive use in close- quarter combat. Type Range Keywords 1-Handed 12”/Melee PISTOL Melee Weapons Battlekit Grenades Shields Armour Equipment Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Ranged Weapons


73 BaThlekit- Trench Crusade Semi- Automatic Rifle Semi-automatic rifles are said to be an invention of Marbas, the Devil who holds great wisdom and knowledge in mechanical arts. They are excellent both at long range and in assault, combining accuracy and high rate of fire, though they are pr one to jamming. Type Range Keywords 2-Handed 24’’ ASSAULT Shotgun Short-barrelled pump action shotgun loaded with six rounds containing antimony hardened 00 buckshot, the combat shotgun is ideal for short-range engagements, clearing trenches and taking out lightly-armoured infantry. Often featuring stocks made of walnut or other rare wood, it is a custom of the troops to decorate these arms with carvings an d inscriptions. Type Range Keywords 2-Handed 12’’ + 1 DICE , SHOTGUN PW Melee Weapons Battlekit Grenades Shields Armour Equipment Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Ranged Weapons


74 BaThlekit- Trench Crusade Silenced Pistol A sophisticated sidearm made of orichalcum or other holy metals, or from Infernal iron taken from the very prisons of Hell to muffle the wails of the damned. It is virtually silent and is excellent for ambushes or for shooting fro m behind cover. Type Range Keywords 1-Handed 12”/Melee ASSAULT , PISTOL * * Silent: Add +1 DICE to the roll if the attacker is in contact with a terrain piece that is at least ½” tall and that lies in between it and th e target model. Sniper Rifle A sniper rifle is a high-precision, long-range rifle, widely used in the trenches to pick off high value targets such as officers, sappers and artillery crews. Expensive and rare, they are commonly given to the best marksmen and sharpshooters of the warband. Type Range Keywords 2-Handed 48” +1 DICE , CRITICAL , RISKY * * Bull’s Eye: If the Success Roll for a Ranged Attack made with a Sniper Rifle is a Critical Success then the Injury Roll for the attack has the IGNORE ARMOUR Keyword. Submachine Gun The submachine gun (or SMG ) is a fully automatic firearm, trading lower penetration power and range for a much higher rate of fire. Ideal for short-range engagements, it is much sought-after by warbands despite its scarcity and high cost. Type Range Keywords 2-Handed 16” ASSAULT * * Quick Bursts: A model armed with a Submachine Gun can take two Shoot ACTIONS during the same Activation, as long as the Submachine Gun is used to make both attacks. The Shoot ACTIONS can be taken one after the other, or other ACTIONS can be taken between the Shoot ACTIONS . Melee Weapons Battlekit Grenades Shields Armour Equipment Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Ranged Weapons


75 BaThlekit- Trench Crusade Melee Weapons Melee Weapons can be used to perform a Melee Attack ( ▶ see Melee Attack) . Melee Weapons cannot be used to make a Ranged Attack unless they have a value in inches noted under their Range on their Profile. A nti-Tank Hammer A polearm with a directional explosive mounted on its head. It is exceedingly good at taking out armoured targets but puts its user i n grave danger. Type Range Keywords 2-Handed Melee +1 INJURY DICE , CRITICAL , IGNOR E ARMOUR , RISKY * * Dangerous: Place 1 BLOOD MARKER next to the model using this Weapon if it makes a Melee Attack and the Success Roll is a Success or a Cr itical Success. Bayonet Bayonets are blades in the form of spikes or daggers that can be fixed to the tip of a firearm and used i n melee combat. Type Range Keywords 2-Handed Melee CUMBERSOME PW Ranged Weapons Battlekit Grenades Shields Armour Equipment Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Melee Weapons


76 BaThlekit- Trench Crusade Flail/Scourge The metal whips of the Church are supremely good at both instilling discipline in the ranks of the faithful and tormenting the heretics. Many devils also enjoy using these weapons due to the excruciating pain they inflict. These weapons are extremely diff icult to dodge. Type Range Keywords 1-Handed Melee +1 DICE * * Unwieldy: The +1 DICE Keyword does not apply when this Weapon is used as an Of f- Hand Weapon. Gr eat Hammer/Maul These are large, cumbersome weapons, often made from sturdy wood with a metal tip of steel, lead or iron of Tartarus. It takes great strength to fight with it for any length of time. They are especially suited for attacking ar moured targets. Type Range Keywords 2-Handed Melee +1 INJURY MODIFIER , HEAVY Great Sword/Axe Claymores, Zweihänders and even huge battle axes are used in the trenches when bullets fail to stop quick or well-armoured targets. The strikes from these weapons can easily lop off l imbs and heads. Type Range Keywords 2-Handed Melee +1 INJURY DICE , CRITICAL , HEAVY Misericordia The misericordia dagger is designed to put enemies out of their misery by finding chinks in the armour: eye slits, neck joints and every other v ulnerable seam. Type Range Keywords 1-Handed Melee - * * Despatch: This weapon has the IGNORE ARMOUR Keyword if the target is Down. Ranged Weapons Battlekit Grenades Shields Armour Equipment Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Melee Weapons


77 BaThlekit- Trench Crusade Polearm Trench pikes, billhooks, spears and other long polearms are excellent defensive weapons, but are cumber some and heavy. Type Range Keywords 2-Handed Melee BL OCK , CUMBERSOME Sword/Axe Because of the martial traditions of many proud nations and due to the advances in armour technology, swords and axes are extremely popular, especially amongst elite units and officers. They are supremely useful for finishing off downed opponents and causing profusely b leeding wounds. Type Range Keywords 1-Handed Melee CRITICAL Trench Club Trench Clubs are one of the most common weapons of the Great War, as melee combat is frequent and brutal. Usually made of wood with a metal tip from iron, lead or steel, trench clubs often feature spikes and hobnails. Most designs have some form of cord or leather strap at the end to wrap around th e user’s wrist. Type Range Keywords 1-Handed Melee - Trench Knife Virtually all soldiers carry a trench knife, dagger or other kind of blade for close quarter engagements. It may lack the devastating power of a great maul or other heavier melee weapons, but this humble weapon has taken countless lives during the Great War. Type Range Keywords 1-Handed Melee -1 DICE Ranged Weapons Battlekit Grenades Shields Armour Equipment Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Melee Weapons


78 BaThlekit- Trench Crusade Grenades Grenades have a Range and can be used to perform a Ranged Attack even though they are not specifically a Ranged Weapon ( ▶ see the Core Rules) . They do not count towards the number of Ranged Weapons a model can have, and a model is assumed to be carrying enough to be able to use t hem every Turn. Frag Grenades Fragmentation grenades or hand bombs are a staple of trench warfare. Usually referred to as frag grenades, they can kill the enemy underground or behind cover. They can also force the enemy into the open, providing targets for rifle and ma chine gun fire. Type Range Keywords Grenade 8’’ ASSAULT , BLAST 2” , IGNORE COVER , IGNORE LONG RANGE , SHRAPNEL Gas Grenades Gas grenades are insidious weapons, attacking the lungs and other internal organs with noxious fumes. Devil alchemists of the Fifth Circle are especially clever in creating these fiendish and hated weapons. Type Range Keywords Grenade 8’’ -1 INJURY DICE , ASSAULT , BLAST 3” , GAS , IGNORE ARMOUR , IGNORE COVER , IG NORE LONG RANGE Ince ndiary Grenades Incendiary grenades can set their target alight with sulphur, phosphorous or flammable gas captured from the Lake of Fire in the Seventh Circle of Hell. Type Range Keywords Grenade 8’’ ASSAULT , FIRE , IGNORE COVER , IG NORE LONG RANGE * * Liquid Fire: If the Success Roll for a Ranged Attack made with an Incendiary Grenade is a Critical Success then the Injury Roll for the attack has the IGNORE ARMOUR Keyword. Ranged Weapons Melee Weapons Battlekit Shields Armour Equipment Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Grenades


79 BaThlekit- Trench Crusade M olotov Cocktail Developed on the desperate Finnish battle frontier against ice demons, this improvised weapon consists of a glass bottle containing a flammable substance such as gasoline, alcohol or a napalm-like mixture plus a sour ce of ignition. Type Range Keywords Grenade 6” -1 INJURY DICE , ASSAULT , FIRE , IGNORE COVER , IG NORE LONG RANGE * * Liquid Fire: If the Success Roll for a Ranged Attack made with a Molotov Cocktail is a Critical Success then the Injury Roll for the attack has the IGNORE ARMOUR Keyword. Satchel Charge Battlefield explosives designed to break apart enemy fortifications and to crack even the toug hest of armour. Type Range Keywords Grenade 6” +1 INJURY DICE , BLAST 3”, CONSUMABLE , HEAVY , IGNORE ARMOUR , IGNORE COVER , SCATTER * * Heavy Explosive: Once during a game, a model with a Satchel Charge can use it to make a Ranged Attack. PW Ranged Weapons Melee Weapons Battlekit Shields Armour Equipment Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Grenades


80 BaThlekit- Trench Crusade Shields Keywords for Shields only apply to Injury Rolls for the model that is using the Shield (ignore them at all other times). The effect of a Shield can be combined with the effect of a suit of Armour unless noted otherwise. A Shield does not block Line of Sight to the model that is carrying it. Trench Shield Shields used in trench warfare are made of steel reinforced with orichalcum to allow them to withstand even high-calibre bullets, or from metal mined from Infernal bedrock and shaped in the armouries of Pandemonium, the c apital of Hell. Type Range Keywords Shield - -1 INJURY MODIFIER Armour Keywords for Armour only apply to Injury Rolls for the model that is wearing the Armour (ignore them at al l other times). Sometimes the INJURY MODIFIER for Armour or a Shield is listed in the Injury Modifiers Table in the Core Rules and is repeated for completeness in the Profile for the Armour or Shield as well. When this is the case, be careful not to apply the modifier more than once. Re inforced Armour Reinforced armour is a master-crafted suit made individually for the most important and elite troops. Each one is richly decorated and often carries the personal device of the warrio r who wears it. Type Range Keywords Armour - -2 INJURY MODIFIER Standard Armour With the advancements in metallurgy and technology, both Faithful and Heretic armies are well-equipped with suits of alloy armour that can withstand an impact from a bullet or turn aside the sharpest of blades. Standard armour is usually mass- produced, but highly effective even against high-c alibre weapons. Type Range Keywords Armour - -1 INJURY MODIFIER Ranged Weapons Melee Weapons Battlekit Grenades Armour Equipment Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Shields


81 BaThlekit- Trench Crusade Equipment Unless noted otherwise a model can have any number of pieces of Equipment, but cannot have the same piece of Equipment more than once. For example, a model could have an Iron Capirote and a Medi-kit, but could not have two Iron Capirotes or two Medi-kits. Armour-P iercing Bullets Advanced armour technology has forced the armouries of the Great War to forge new types of bullets. Expensive and labour-intensive to produce, these hardened tungsten rounds are more effective against batt lefield armour. Type Range Keywords Equipment - AMMUNITION ( ARMOUR- PIERCI NG ), CONSUMABLE Binoculars It is quite common for officers to carry finely-crafted battlefield binoculars to survey the land ahead, spot hidden enemy troops and observe any si gn of movement. Type Range Keywords Equipment - - * * Survey the Land: Enemy models cannot use the INFILTRATOR Keyword to deploy within 16” of a model with this Keyword unless they are in their own side’s d eployment zone. Blessed Icon Small icons of saints, great angels and holy warriors are a common sight amongst the Trench Pilgrims. They are hung on rosaries, belts, or attached to portable shrines carried on the P ilgrims’ backs. Type Range Keywords Equipment - CONSUMABLE * * Talisman: Once during a game, when a Risky Success Roll for a model with a Blessed Icon is a Failure, you can say that the model will use its Talisman. If you do, the model’s Activatio n does not end. Ranged Weapons Melee Weapons Battlekit Grenades Shields Equipment Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Armour


82 BaThlekit- Trench Crusade Combat Helmet The simple combat helmet has proven its value on the battlefield time and again. Type Range Keywords Equipment - NEGATE SHRAPNEL Dum-Dum Bullets These hollow-point bullets are far more likely to cause fatal wounds than stand ard ammunition. Type Range Keywords Equipment - AMMUNITION ( CRITIC AL ), CONSUMABLE Field Shrine Holy reliquaries, blessed artefacts and sacred crosses are often carried to the battlefield to encourage the troops, while the Heretics bring idols of the Golden Calf, tortured captives or other wicked totems to bear. Type Range Keywords Equipment - DEPLOYABLE A Field Shrine is represented by a terrain piece that is at least ½” high and which is mounted on a 40mm base. It is Impa ssable terrain. * * Site of Worship: After you deploy a model that has Field Shrine, you can also deploy their Field Shrine anywhere wholly within their deployment zone. In the Morale Phase, each friendly Field Shrine on the battlefield adds 3 to the number of models you have in your Warband that are not Down or Out of Action, up to a maximum bonus of 9 extra models. Once deployed, the model that had the Field Shrine is not considered to be carrying it for the re st of the game. * * Tear It Down!: Models can attack a Field Shrine as if it were an enemy model. If it is hit by an attack or is in the blast radius of an attack made with a Weapon that has the BLAST Keyword, it is removed from the battlefield and is removed from the Warband Roster (no Injury Rol l is required). Gas Mask Mustard gas, phosgene, chlorine as well as noxious fumes from the bolgias of Hell plague the battlefield. The gas mask allows soldiers to withstan d such attacks. Type Range Keywords Equipment - NEGATE GAS Ranged Weapons Melee Weapons Battlekit Grenades Shields Armour Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Equipment


83 BaThlekit- Trench Crusade Hellboun d Soul Contract An infernal contract signed by a Heretic and the demon who will come to collect the damned soul when death is close. The mortal signatory bursts into Infernal flames when ser iously wounded. Type Range Keywords Equipment - - * * Fiery Exodus: If a model with a Hellbound Soul Contract is taken Out of Action, before removing it from the battlefield add 1 BLOOD MARKER to each enemy model that is within 1” of it. Models that have the NEGATE FIRE Keyword are not affected by thi s special rule. Holy Relic Due to the threat to all Creation, the churches, cathedrals and basilicas have emptied their reliquaries and distributed their relics to the frontline troops to aid them in their battle agai nst the damned. Type Range Keywords Equipment - BLESSED 1 Incend iary Ammunition Developed by Aym, the great duke of Hell, these bullets set any target th ey hit on fire. Type Range Keywords Equipment - AMMUNITION ( FI RE ), CONSUMABLE Infernal Brand A Heretic who has made a holy pilgrimage into Hell itself is branded by their patron devil with an ever-burning mark. Mortal fire no longer has the powe r to harm them. Type Range Keywords Equipment - NEGATE FIRE Ranged Weapons Melee Weapons Battlekit Grenades Shields Armour Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Equipment


84 BaThlekit- Trench Crusade Martyrdom Pills Martyrdom pills are a potent mixture of mind-altering drugs and chemicals that inure a soldier against all pain and injury. However, it takes a tremendous to ll on the body. Type Range Keywords Equipment - CONSUMABLE * * Inured to Pain: When you deploy a model that has Martyrdom Pills you can say that they will consume them. If you do so, until the end of the game the model has the NEGATE FEAR Keyword. In addition, add -1 INJURY DICE to rolls for attacks that hit the model. Medi-kit Battlefield first aid has brought many soldiers back from the brink of death. Blessed ointments can seal fatal wounds completely, while the black blood of demons used by twisted Heretic medics allows mangled troops to retu rn to the fray. Type Range Keywords Equipment - - * * Treat ACTION : A model with this Keyword can take a Treat ACTION . If it does so, take a Risky Success Roll for the model. If the roll is a Failure, the model’s Activation ends immediately. If it is a Success or a Critical Success, you can do one of the fo llowing things: * Remove 1 BLOOD MARKER from the model or a friendly model within 1 ” of the model. * Stand up a friendly model that is Down and within 1 ” of the model. Mountaineer Kit This kit includes ropes, carabiners, slings, mountaineering harness and pitons to aid a soldier in overcoming almost any ver tical obstacle. Type Range Keywords Equipment - - * * Ropes and Pitons: Add +1 DICE to Risky Success Rolls for friendly models with this special rule that are attempting to climb a sheer surface. Ranged Weapons Melee Weapons Battlekit Grenades Shields Armour Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Equipment


85 BaThlekit- Trench Crusade Mus ical Instrument Horns, drums, trumpets, whistles, bagpipes and many other types of instruments are used extensively in the battles of the Great War. They can bolster the hearts of those facing the horrors of Hell, or they can recite terrifying hymns praising the lords of the Inferno! Type Range Keywords Equipment - HELD * * Fanfare : Add +1 DICE to Risky Success Rolls for friendly models that are taking a Dash ACTION and are within 4” of one or more models with a Musi cal Instrument. Shovel Battlefield shovels allow troops to dig in and fight from cover in virtually a ny battlefield. Type Range Keywords Equipment - - * * Dug In: A model equipped with a Shovel that starts the game on Open terrain has the COVER Keyword until it moves away from its starting position. In addition, a model equipped with a Shovel can use it as a 2-Handed Melee Weapon instead of using any other Melee Weapons it has. Tracer Bullets Tracer bullets allow soldiers to adjust their a im efficiently. Type Range Keywords Equipment - AMMUNITION ( +1 DI CE ), CONSUMABLE Troop Flag Most warbands and units carry banners, flags, standards, pennants or other symbols to ra lly the troops. Type Range Keywords Equipment - LEADER , HELD Ranged Weapons Melee Weapons Battlekit Grenades Shields Armour Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Equipment


86 BaThlekit- Trench Crusade Unholy Relic An artefact bestowed with unholy power. Examples include nephilim heads, desecrated splinters of the True Cross or mummified body parts of fallen sain ts and bishops. Type Range Keywords Equipment - FEAR Unholy Trinket Many Heretic Troopers carry a talisman or charm that are sold by soothsayers and imps in the Heretic domains. Such a trinket might be a skull, preserved foetus, horn of a goat, and is often covered i n Goetic runes. Type Range Keywords Equipment - CONSUMABLE * * Talisman: Once during a game, when a Risky Success Roll for a model with an Unholy Trinket is a Failure, you can say that the model will use it. If you do, the model’s Activatio n does not end. GD Ranged Weapons Melee Weapons Battlekit Grenades Shields Armour Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Equipment