144 Scenarios- Trench Crusade scenarios This section of the rulebook includes a selection of scenarios you can use for games of Trench Crusade. Each scenario provides the information you need to set up and play a game, any special rules you will need to play the scenario, and details of how the winner of the g ame is decided. PR EPARING TO PLAY To play a game of Trench Crusade, you will need to recruit a Warband ( ▶ see Starting a Warband in Warbands of Trench Crusade), find an opponent, and then decide which scenario you and your opponent want to play. If you’re playing a campaign game, the scenario you will play will be determined u sing the rules. ( ▶ see Selecting a Camp aign Scenario) . If you’re playing a one-off game, you can choose which scenario you want to play; if you can’t agree, roll-off and the winner can pick the scenario you will use. Once you’ve chosen your scenario, the rules in this section will explain how to set up and play the game. When you are ready to play the scenario, you will need to bring along the models for the force you will use in the game, some terrain pieces, rules, dice and markers, and a copy o f the rulebook. Scenario List The rulebook includes the following scenarios. The scenarios provided here will be enough for months of play, and you can find more on the Trench Crusade website at www.tr enchcrusade.com I Clai m No Man’s Land II Hunt for Heroes III Relic Hunt IV Trench Warfare V Armoured Train VI Dragon Hunt VII Supply Raid VIII From Below IX Fields of Glory X Don’t Breathe XI The High Ground XII Great War IV I V VII II VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Scenario Format


145 Scenarios- Trench Crusade Scenario Format A Trench Crusade scenario includes the followi ng information. GAME MAP The map for a scenario shows the Deployment Zones for each side and where to place any Markers that need to go at a specific location. All of these things are explained in more detail in the f ollowing rules. FORCES Scenarios are fought with a selection of models from your Warband called a Force. The first thing you must do to play a game is to pick the models from your Warband that will make up your Force. In a one-off game, you will usually be able to use all of the models in your Warband, however, if you are playing a campaign game, your Force must conform to your Warband’s Threshold Value and Field Strength ( ▶ see Warband Th reshold Table) . Any further restrictions on what you can include in your Force, over and above those for Starting a Warband or your Warband’s Threshold Value and Field Strength, will be noted in the instructions for the scenario. Once you’ve chosen your Force, only the models in your Force are considered part of your Warband for the duration of the scenario. For example, if a rule states you can do something if a model is part of your Warband, you can only use the rule in a game if you included the model in your Force. One-off Games The Trench Crusade rules are written primarily for use in campaigns ( ▶ see Campaign Rules) . However, they can also be used for one-off games that are not part of a campaign. In one-off games, you will need to agree on how many 👑 can be spent on your Warbands, and if you will allow the Warbands to use ☼ to purchase models, Mercenaries , or Battlekit. If you are new to Trench Crusade, we recommend using a 700 👑 startin g Warban d for one-off games. This will allow you to count the game as the first game in a campaign should you wish to do so. Once you’ve gained some experience, we’ve found that 800 👑 an d 6 ☼ i s a ver y goo d siz e fo r one-o ff games , offerin g plent y o f choice without making the Warbands too larg e and unwieldy. IV I V VII II VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Scenario Format


146 Scenarios- Trench Crusade THE BATTLEFIELD The next thing you need to do is set up the battlefield. Most scenarios can be played on a typical dining table, but some require a battlefield that is either 36” or 48” square. Battlef ield Archetypes The instructions here will explain which battlefield archetype is used for the scenario. Battlefield archetypes are explained in the Terrain Section of the book, which also includes instructions for setting the terrain pieces up for the game ( ▶ see Battlefield Archetypes) . Any additional instructions on how to set up the terrain pieces for the scenario will be included here. Note that unless stated otherwise, the terrain shown on the map is for illustrative purposes and does not need to be copied when you set up the terrain fo r the scenario. Markers Some scenarios will ask you to set up one or more Markers. When a Marker is set up in a specific location, its position is marked on the map with a white cross. If a Marker is set up at the ‘Midpoint’, it must be set up so that the centre of the Marker is at the centre of the battlefield. You can use cardboard, wood or plastic counters, flags, or pieces of “scattered terrain” up to 40mm across as Markers. A Marker does not hinder movement or affect the Line of Sight unless it is a terrain piece ( ▶ see Terrain Pieces) . If a terrain piece covers the spot where a Marker is to be set up, place the Marker anywhere that it will stand on th e terain piece. B locking Terrain You are not allowed to set up terrain in such a way that it would make it impossible for any of the models being used for the game to either exit their Deployment Zone or reach a location where a Marker is to be placed. If you realise that you have accidentally set up blocking terrain once the game is underway, you must allow models that are blocked by it to cross as if it were Open terrain (it will still block Line of Sight). DEPLOYMENT Next, the players must deploy the models from their Forces. Unless stated otherwise, you must deploy all of the models from your Force. Models must be set up on the battlefield or in terrain that is n’t Impassable. D eployment Zones The map for the scenario you are using will show an area on the battlefield referred to as your Deployment Zone. This is where each player can deploy their models. When you are instructed to deploy a model or a terrain piece in your Deployment Zone, it must be deployed wholly within it. The instructions for the scenario will explain how the players pick which Deployment Zones they will use. IV I V VII II VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Scenario Format


147 Scenarios- Trench Crusade Infiltrators Some models either have the INFILTRATOR Keyword or a special rule that allows them to deploy after other models and/or outside their side’s Deployment Zone. The scenario will say whether these special deployment rules can be used or if the models must be deployed normally. If a scenario says that Infiltrators must deploy normally, then it means that no models can deploy outside their side’s Deployment Zone. Note that when a rule says that a model is deployed ‘after’ other sorts of models, it means after all other models from both sides have been deployed. If both sides have models that deploy after other models, then any instructions in the deployment rules about the order in which models are deploy ed still apply. For example, if Gary has 9 models that include 1 infiltrator and Christina has 7 models that include 3 infiltrators, Gary and Christina would deploy the models that can’t infiltrate first until Christina ran out of models. Gary would deploy the rest of their models that can’t infiltrate one after the other. Then, Gary and Christina would deploy their infiltrators, starting with Christina because Gary deployed the last model. SPECIAL RULES Some scenarios include one or more special rules. When this is the case, they will be included after the Deployment instructions fo r the scenario. Pre- Game Activities Many Abilities, Skills, and Battlekit special rules allow you to take an action before the game begins. These are called Pre-Game Activities. Each pre-game activity will say when it takes place; if they say they take place “before” or “after” something, they happen immediately before or after it. For example, if a rule allowed you to do something “at the start of the game, before deployment”, it would happen immediately before deployment was started. If several pre-game activities happen at the same time, then the players must roll-off and the winner decides what order they a re resolved in. Sec ret Information You will sometimes be required to secretly write down information during a game. For example, you might need to secretly write down which enemy models you have marked to be taken Out of Action during the game. When you record information like this, you must ensure that whatever you write down is legible and clearly explains the information it needs to convey. When the secret information is revealed during the game, you must show what you wrote down to your opponent. IV I V VII II VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Scenario Format


148 Scenarios- Trench Crusade GAME LENGTH Once both sides have deployed, you are ready to start the game’s first Turn. The instructions here will explain how long the game lasts, generally stating a n umber of Turns. VIC TORY CONDITIONS When the game ends, follow the instructions here to determi ne who has won. Victory Points In most scenarios, Victory Points (sometimes referred to as VPs) are used to determine who wins and loses. If both players score the same number of Victory Points the game is a draw. Each scenario includes a list of the Victory Points that can be scored by the players during the game, that says when and how they are scored. If Victory Points are scored at the end of each Turn, when the game ends, first score any Victory Points for the end of the final Turn, and then score any Victory Points that are only scored at the e nd of the game. IV I V VII II VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Scenario Format


149 Scenarios- Trench Crusade GLORIOUS DEEDS Each scenario has a unique set of Glorious Deeds that, when completed, award Victory Points. The number of Victory Points that are awarded will be included in the list of Victory Points for the scenario that is being played. Each Glorious Deed outlines a condition; the Glorious Deeds are completed as soon as the condition is met for the first time during a game. Unless stated otherwise, each Glorious Deed can only be completed once, and whichever player completes a Deed first gets the glory! If both players complete the same Glorious Deed at the same time, roll-off to determine who completed the Glorious Deed first. Note that a single model can complete several Glorious Deeds at the same time. Conditions Every Glorious Deed has a title followed by a condition. The condition is what you must do to complete the Glorious Deed. For example, the Lord of War Glorious Deed has the condition that “A friendly model takes two enemy models Out of Action with Melee Attacks in a single Turn.” A model is considered to have achieved a condition if anything it does causes an outcome that completely satisfies the condition. For example, the Protect the Relic Glorious Deed has the condition that a model causes an enemy model within 1” of a Reliquary Marker to be taken Out of Action. If the enemy was near a ledge, and an attack by a model took them Down, and then they fell from the ledge and the Fall took them Out of Action, then the attacking model would complete the Protect the Relic Glorious Deed. This is because their attack caused the enemy model to be taken Out of Action. On the other hand, the Sniper Glorious Deed has the condition that a model must make a Ranged Attack at Long Range against a model that has the Cover modifier, and that the Ranged Attack must take the target Out of Action. If the target was near a ledge, and the attack took them Down, and then they fell from the ledge and the Fall took them Out of Action, then the attacking model would not complete the Sniper Glorious Deed because it was the Fall that took the enemy model Out of Action, not the Ranged Attack. IV I V VII II VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Scenario Format


150 Scenarios- Trench Crusade GLORY POINTS If you are playing a campaign game, you will need to track which of your models completed Glorious Deeds during the game. Although a Glorious Deed can only be carried out once per game, it can be carried out several times in different games through out a campaign. Carrying out a Glorious Deed in a campaign allows you to do the following things after the ga me is finished: * * You get 1 ☼, which you can spend to hire mercenaries or purchase Battlekit and Glory Items that have a Cost in ☼ instead of 👑 ( ▶ see Purchas e Glory Items) . * * Models with the ELITE Keyword that carry out one or more Glorious Deeds in a game receive 1 Experience Point ( ▶ see Experience) . If a Glorious Deed is completed by a Warband or a player rather than a model (e.g. when a player wins the game), then no experience points are received for that Glorious Deed. * * Add 1 D6 to your Promotion Pool after the game for each Glorious Deed that w as carried out. IV I V VII II VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios Scenario Format


151 Scenarios- Trench Crusade I º Clai m No Man’s Land Battle for control over a stretch of land and drive away your foes. FORCES No special restrictions apply to the models the players can include in their Forces in this scenario. THE BATTLEFIELD The players roll-off and the winner sets up the terrain for the game. This scenario uses the No Man’s Land battlef ield archetype. 6” 6” 24” MIDPOINT DEPLOYMENT ZONE DEPLOYMENT ZONE Scenario Format IV V VII II VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios I


152 Scenarios- Trench Crusade Ob jective Markers The Markers shown on the map represent important objectives. When you set up the terrain pieces for this scenario, you must place the first five terrain pieces so that they are covering the locations where the Objective Markers will be set up. In addition, you must use Ruined Building terrain pieces if you have them available. The Objective Markers are set up after all of the terrain. Place each Objective Marker anywhere on the terrain piece that covers its starting position; the whole of the terrain piece is treated as the Objective for this scenario, and cannot be destroyed or removed f or any reason.. Control ling Objectives A player controls an Objective terrain piece if there are more friendly models on, in, or within 1” of the terrain piece than there are enemy models. If one player has any models on the terrain piece and their opponent does not, then the player with models on the terrain piece controls it even if their opponent has more models within 1” of the Objective. DEPLOYMENT The players roll-off. The winner of the roll-off chooses which Deployment Zone will be theirs. The other Deployment Zone is their opponent’s. The players then alternate deploying their models one at a time, starting with the player who has more models in their Warband (roll-off if both players have the same number of models). Models must be set up wholly within their own Deployment Zone. If a player runs out of models to set up, the other player sets up all their remaining models, one after another until they have none left. Once the players have set up their models, deployment ends and t he game begins. Infiltrators Infiltrators must deploy normally (they cannot use their special dep loyment rules). GAME LENGTH This scenario la sts four Turns. Scenario Format IV V VII II VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios I


153 Scenarios- Trench Crusade VIC TORY CONDITIONS A player wins this scenario immediately if there are no enemy models on the battlefield, or if the opposing Warband flees (typically due to failing a Morale Check). Otherwise, the player with more Victory Points at the end of the game is the winner. Victory Points * * At the end of each Turn, each player scores 2 VPs for each Objectiv e they control. * * At the end of the game each player scores 1 VP for each Glorious Deed they completed. GLORIOUS DEEDS * * Bloodletting: An attack made by a friendly model results in the sixth BLOOD MARKER being placed beside an enemy model. * * Cast Them Down: A friendly model causes an enemy model to Fall from a height of at least 3” (e.g. by taking the enemy model Down near a ledge, or by forcing it off a ledg e in some way). * * Hold Your Ground: A Warband is the first to pass a Morale Check in this game. You receive a Victory Point for achieving this Glorious Deed. In a campaign game you can award 1 Experience Point to 1 ELITE model from the Warband that has the LEADER Keyword if you have one available, and you receive Glory Points and an extra D6 for your Promotion Pool as you would normally. * * Lord of War: A friendly model takes two enemy models Out of Action with Melee Attacks in a single Turn. * * Resist and Bite: A friendly model that began its Activation Down takes an enemy model Out of Action in the s ame Activation. * * Sniper: A friendly model takes an enemy ELITE model Out of Action with a Ranged Weapon Attack that has the Long Range and C over modifiers. * * Suicidal Bravery: A friendly model successfully charges two models with the sa me charge move. Scenario Format IV V VII II VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios I


154 Scenarios- Trench Crusade II º Hunt for Heroes Hunt down the enemy leaders while protec ting your own. FORCES In this scenario, both players must include as many ELITE models from their Warba nd as possible. THE BATTLEFIELD The players roll-off and the winner sets up the terrain for the game. This scenario uses the No Man’s Land battlef ield archetype. Ob jective Markers The Markers shown on the map with a white cross represent important objectives. When you set up the terrain pieces for this scenario, you must place the first four terrain pieces so that they are covering the locations where the Objective Markers will be set up. In addition, you must use Ruined Building terrain pieces if you have them available. The Objective Markers are set up after all of the terrain. Place the Objective Marker anywhere on the terrain piece that covers its starting position; 5” 5” 5” 5” 8” 10” 10” 10” 10” 7” 7” MIDPOINT D efense Works placements Area D efense Works placements Area DEPLOYMENT ZONE DEPLOYMENT ZONE M M G G Scenario Format IV I V VII VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios II


155 Scenarios- Trench Crusade the whole of the terrain piece is treated as the Objective for this scenario. A player controls an Objective terrain piece if there are more friendly models on, in, or within 1” of the terrain piece than there ar e enemy models. Defenc e Works Markers The Markers shown on the map that have a G or an M represent defence works that have built-in weaponry - “G” has a Gun Battery, and “M” has a Machine Gun Emplacement. After you have set up any Objective terrain pieces, you must place the next four terrain pieces so that they are on top of where a Defence Works Marker will be set up. In addition, you must use Ruined Building terrain pieces if you have them available. The Defence Works Markers are set up after all of the terrain. Place the Marker anywhere on the terrain piece that covers its starting position. Defence Work Markers have the following special rules: * * Gun Battery Marker: A Gun Battery Marker is treated as if it were a Sultanate Grand Cannon stationary gun battery that can be used by any model. Rules for the Sultanate Grand Cannon stationary battery are found in the Defenders of the Iron Wall section of the Warbands of Trench Cr usade document. * * Machine Gun Emplacement Marker: A model that is within 1” of a Machine Gun Emplacement is treated as having a Machine Gun from the standard Battlekit List ( ▶ see Machine Gun) . A Machine Gun Emplacement cannot be used if the Marker is within 1” of an enemy model. Each Machine Gun Emplacement can be used once per Turn. DEPLOYMENT The players roll-off. The winner of the roll-off chooses which Deployment Zone will be theirs. The other Deployment Zone is their opponent’s. The players then alternate deploying their models one at a time, starting with the player who has more models in their Warband (roll-off if both players have the same number of models). Models must be set up wholly within their own Deployment Zone. If a player runs out of models to set up, the other player sets up all their remaining models, one after another, until they have none left. Once the players have set up their models, deployment ends, and t he game begins. Infiltrators Infiltrators can deploy normally or by using their special deployment rules. However, if they deploy using their special deployment rules, they cannot deploy within 8” o f an Objective. Marks & Assets After the deployment, each player must secretly write down up to three enemy models with the ELITE Keyword as Marks, and one friendly model that has the ELITE Keyword as an Asset. Taking out enemy Marks and keeping the friendly Asset alive will score additional Victory Points at the end of the game ( ▶ see below) . Scenario Format IV I V VII VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios II


156 Scenarios- Trench Crusade UN FORESEEN EVENTS At the start of each Turn after the first, one of the players must roll a D6. On a roll of 1-4 nothing happens, but on a 5 or 6, an Unforeseen Event takes place (do not roll again to see if any further Unforeseen Events take place). Roll D3 and look up the roll on the table below to se e what happens. D3 U nforeseen Event 1 Rising Fog: Heavy fog covers the entire combat zone, drastically limiting visibility for all models. During this Turn and the next Turn, all Ranged Weapons have their Range halved (short range will be half the reduced Range). 2 Rain, Mud, and Guts: The clouds roar and wail as a sudden downpour strikes the battlefield, leaving the ground muddy and bloody, and battlekit heavy and wet. During this Turn and the next Turn, add -2 DICE to rolls for Melee Attacks. 3 Deep Craters: A sudden and violent earthquake hits the area, sending tremors through the earth as the land splits and caves in, forming deep craters all over the warzone. The players roll-off. Starting with the winner, they take it in turn to each placing Crater Markers, one at a time, until 6 new Markers have been placed. The Crater Markers cannot be placed within a Deployment Zone or within 2” of a terrain piece or a model. Open terrain within 2” of the centre of the Crater Marker is considered to be a pit that has sheer sides and is D3+3” deep (roll separately for each Marker when it is placed). Models can Jump Down or Fall into the pit, and will need to Climb in order to leave it. Crater Markers can be represented by a suitable terrain piece that is up to 4” across, if any are available. GAME LENGTH This scenario la sts five Turns. VIC TORY CONDITIONS A player wins this scenario immediately if there are no enemy models on the battlefield or if the opposing Warband flees (typically due to failing a Morale Check). Otherwise, the player with more Victory Points at the end of the game is the winner. Victory Points * * At the end of each Turn, each player scores 1 VP for each Objective that is within 1” of one or more of their models and 1 VP for each Objective they control. * * At the end of the game each player scores: * 1 VP for each Glorious Deed they completed. * 2 VPs for each enemy Mark that was taken Out of Action. * 3 VPs if the friendly Asset was not taken Out of Action. Scenario Format IV I V VII VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios II


157 Scenarios- Trench Crusade GLORIOUS DEEDS * * Sharpshooter: A friendly model in cover takes an enemy ELITE model Out of Action with a Ranged Attack with the Long Range modifier. * * Dangerous Fall: A friendly model causes an enemy model to Fall into a crater ( ▶ see Unfo reseen Events) . * * Death From Above: A friendly model takes an enemy model Out of Action with a Melee Attack with the Diving C harge modifier. * * High Risk, High Reward: An Asset takes an enemy Mark Out of Action. To claim this deed, the player must first reveal that their model was an Asset and that the enemy mod el was a Mark. * * Kill their Leaders: Take all of the enemy Marks Out of Action. To claim this deed, the player must first reveal which enemy models were their Marks. The model that took the last Mark Out of Action is credited with completing this Glorious Deed. Scenario Format IV I V VII VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios II


158 Scenarios- Trench Crusade I II º Relic Hunt Find and secure sacred relics for the glory of your Patron. FORCES No special restrictions apply to the models the players can include in their Forces in this scenario. THE BATTLEFIELD The players roll-off and the winner sets up the terrain for the game. This scenario uses the No Man’s Land battlef ield archetype. 24” 6” 6” MIDPOINT DEPLOYMENT ZONE DEPLOYMENT ZONE 1 5 6 4 3 2 6” Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI VIII IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios III


159 Scenarios- Trench Crusade RE LIQUARY MARKERS The Markers shown on the map represent Reliquaries. Set up the Markers at the locations shown on the map. At the end of Turn 1, remove Reliquaries 1 and 2, and at the end of Turn 2, remove Reliq uaries 3 and 4. * * Claim Reliquary ACTION : A model tha t is within 1” of a Reliquary, can take a Claim Reliquary ACTION . If it does so, take a Success Roll for the model. If the roll is a Failure, nothing happens. If the roll is a Success or Critical Success, the Reliquary is claimed by the model ( ▶ see Victory Points) . A Reliquary that has been claimed cannot be claimed again for the rest of the Turn (it can then be claimed again by either side in subsequent Turns). Note that after a model claims a Reliquary, it remains claimed by their side for the rest of the Turn even if the model is subsequently taken Down or Out of Action. DEPLOYMENT The players roll-off. The winner of the roll-off chooses which Deployment Zone will be theirs. The other Deployment Zone is their opponent’s. The players then alternate deploying their models one at a time, starting with the player who has more models in their Warband (roll-off if both players have the same number of models). Each player may deploy a maximum of six models. Models mounted on bases 40mm or larger count as 2 models for this purpose. Any models that cannot be deployed are available as reinforcements. Models must be set up wholly within their own Deployment Zone. If a player runs out of models to set up, the other player sets up all their remaining models, one after another, until they have none left. Once the players have set up their models, deployment ends, and t he game begins. Infiltrators Infiltrators must deploy normally (they cannot use their special dep loyment rules). REINFORCEMENTS At the start of each Turn, the players roll-off. The winner rolls a D3 to see how many reinforcement models each of the players can deploy. The players then alternate deploying reinforcement models, one at a time, starting with the player that won the roll-off. Reinforcement models must be deployed touching the edge of the battlefield, wholly within their Deployment Zone, and more than 8” from the closest enemy model. If a player runs out of reinforcement models, the opposing player can set up any remaining reinforcements they have available up to the limit set for the Turn. Players must set up reinforcements if they have any available and are allowed to do so (you can’t choose to h old them back). TO THE DEATH! Neither side takes Morale Checks during this game, and neither player can choose to flee with their Warband. Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI VIII IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios III


160 Scenarios- Trench Crusade GAME LENGTH This scenario la sts four Turns. VIC TORY CONDITIONS A player wins this scenario immediately if there are no enemy models on the battlefield after any reinforcements have been deployed. Otherwise, the player with more Victory Points at the end of the game wins. Victory Points * * During Turns 1 to 3 each player scores 1 VP for each Reliquary claimed by a model from their Warband, up to a maximum of 4 VPs per Turn (they can claim more Reliquaries to deny the enemy the chance of claiming them). * * During Turn 4 each player scores 2 VPs for each Reliquary claimed by a model from their Warband. * * At the end of the game each player scores 1 VP for each Glorious Deed they completed. GLORIOUS DEEDS * * Blood Sacrifice: A friendly model causes three enemy models to be taken Out of Action d uring the game. * * Cast Them Down: A friendly model causes an enemy model to Fall from a height of at least 3” (e.g. by taking it Down near a ledge or by forcing it off a ledg e in some way). * * Protect the Relic: A friendly model causes an enemy model that is within 1” of a Reliquary Marker to be taken Out of Action. * * Relic Hunter: A friendly model claims two different Reliquaries d uring the game. * * Resist and Bite: A friendly model that began its Activation Down takes an enemy model Out of Action in the s ame Activation. * * Sniper: A friendly model takes an enemy ELITE model Out of Action with a Ranged Weapon Attack that has the Long Range and C over modifiers. Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI VIII IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios III


161 Scenarios- Trench Crusade IV º Trench Warfare Assault the trenches to win glory for yourself or mount a defence against a n enemy attack. FORCES Before picking their Forces, the players must decide who is the attacker and who is the defender in this scenario. In a campaign, the player with the most models in their Warband (ignoring their Threshold Values or Field Strength) is the attacker, and their opponent is the defender. If both players have the same number of models, and in one-off games, the players roll-off and the winner must decide who will be the attacker and who will be the defender. The defender must halve the number of 👑 they can spend on their Warband in this scenario. THE BATTLEFIELD The players roll-off and the winner sets up the terrain for the game. This scenario uses the No Man’s Land battlefield archetype. When setting up the terrain for this scenario, do not set up any terrain in either Deployment Zone ( ▶ see Defenders Tren ch Line below) . 24” 12” ATTACKER DEPLOYMENT ZONE DEFENDER DEPLOYMENT ZONE MINE PLACEMENT AREA 8” Trench Section 8” Trench Section 8” Trench Section Scenario Format I V VII II VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios IV


162 Scenarios- Trench Crusade DEPLOYMENT The players roll-off. The winner of the roll-off chooses which Deployment Zone will be theirs. The other Deployment Zone is their opponent’s. Before deploying any models, the defender must set up their Trench Lines and Mine Markers as described below. The players then alternate deploying their models one at a time, starting with the attacker. Models must be set up wholly within their own Deployment Zone. If a player runs out of models to set up, the other player sets up all their remaining models, one after another, until they have none left. Once the players have set up their models, deployment ends, and t he game begins. Defendi ng Trench Lines The defender must set up three trench sections that are at least 8” long at the locations shown on the map. They can add additional trench sectio ns of any size. Mine Markers After the defender sets up their Trenches, they can set up 12 Mine Markers within the Mine Placement Area. After setting the Mine Markers up, the defender must secretly write down which 4 of the Mine Markers are duds. All of the other Mine Markers are live and have the MINED Keyword and the followin g special rule. * * Slaughter Mines: As soon as a model moves within 3” of a Mine Marker, temporarily halt its move. The defender must then reveal if the Mine Marker is a dud. If it is, nothing happens. If it is a live mine, it detonates in the same way as if the model had moved into contact with a Marker with the MINED Keyword. The Mine Marker is removed, and the moving model can then continue its move as long as it wasn’t taken Down or Out of Action. Models with the FLYING Keyword only trigger a Mine Marker if they finish a move in contact with it (they can fly across it without se tting it off ). Infiltrators Infiltrators can deploy normally or by using their special deployment rules. Attacking models that use special deployment rules must deploy within 12” of their D eployment Zone. GAME LENGTH At the end of the fourth Turn, the attacker rolls a D6. On a 1 or 2, the game ends immediately. On a 3 or more, the game will end at the end of the fifth Turn. Scenario Format I V VII II VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios IV


163 Scenarios- Trench Crusade VIC TORY CONDITIONS A player wins this scenario immediately if there are no enemy models on the battlefield or if the opposing Warband flees (typically due to failing a Morale Check). Otherwise, the player with more Victory Points at the end of the game is the winner. Victory Points * * At the end of each Turn, the defender scores 1 VP for each trench section that is at least 8” long and has one or more defending models in it. If there are no attacking models in the trench section, the defender scores 2 VPs instead of 1. * * At the end of each Turn, the attacker scores 2 VPs for each trench section that is at least 8” long and has one or more attacking models in it. If there are no defending models in the trench section, the attacker scores 3 VPs instead of 2. * * At the end of the game each player scores 1 VP for each Glorious Deed they completed. GLORIOUS DEEDS * * Good Hunting: A friendly model takes an enemy model Out of Action with a Ranged Attack that has the Long R ange modifier. * * Headshot: A friendly model that retreated earlier in its Activation takes one of the enemy models it retreated from Out of Action. * * Hold your Ground: A Warband is the first to pass a Morale Check in this game. You receive a Victory Point for achieving this Glorious Deed. In a campaign game you can award 1 Experience Point to 1 ELITE model from the Warband that has the LEADER Keyword if you have one available, and you receive Glory Points and an extra D6 for your Promotion Pool as you would normally. * * Into the Trenches!: A friendly model successfully charges an enemy model in a trench section and then takes the enemy model Out of Action with a Melee Attack. * * Survive to Tell the Tale: A friendly model that has two Injury Rolls made for it that are caused by mine explosions and is not taken Out of Action by either of the explosions. * * Victory or Death: A Warband wins the game. This Glorious Deed is only used in campaign games and is determined after the result of the game has been decided. You do not receieve any Victory Points for acheiving this Glorious Deed, but you can award 1 Experience Point to 1 ELITE model from the Warband that has the LEADER Keyword if you have one available, and you receive Glory Points and an extra D6 for your Promotion Pool as you would normally. Scenario Format I VII II VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios V IV


164 Scenarios- Trench Crusade V º Armoured Train A derailed armoured train, laden with loot and ammunition, is being fought over by th e two warbands. FORCES If this game is being played as part of a campaign, both players have a Field Strengt h of 15 models. THE BATTLEFIELD The players roll-off and the winner sets up the terrain for the game. This scenario uses the No Man’s Land battlefield archetype and requires a Battlefield that is 48” by 48”. The Train When you set up the terrain for this battle, you must first set up the wagons from an armoured train. The wagons are located on a raised embankment that has a bridge in the middle. 6” 6” 4” 4” 8” 8” 8” 20” 12” 12” 20” DEPLOYMENT ZONE DEPLOYMENT ZONE 4” G Scenario Format I VII II VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios V IV


165 Scenarios- Trench Crusade The dimensions of the wagons are shown on the map. Each wagon has ladders on both sides that allow models to Climb up the sides without having to take a Risky Success Roll and doors at the centre of each side that can be unlocked to reach the supplies inside ( ▶ see the Supplies rule below). The top of each wagon is flat and treated a s Open terrain. Two of the wagons are located on raised embankments that measure 12” by 19”. The sides of the embankments are roughly 5” high and are Difficult terrain. The central wagon is located on a bridge that joins the two embankments together. Models can move under the bridge from the sides and onto the bridge from each end, where it connects to the rais ed embankments. Gun Battery Marker After setting up the weapons, place a Gun Battery Marker on the top of the central wagon, as shown on the map. It has the followin g special rule: * * Gun Battery Marker: A Gun Battery Marker is treated as if it were a Sultanate Grand Cannon stationary gun battery that can be used by any model. Rules for the Sultanate Grand Cannon stationary battery are found in the Defenders of the Iron Wall section of the Warbands of Trench Cr usade document. DEPLOYMENT The players roll-off. The winner of the roll-off chooses which Deployment Zone will be theirs. The other Deployment Zone is their opponent’s. The players then alternate deploying their models one at a time, starting with the player who has more models in their Warband (roll-off if both players have the same number of models). Models must be set up wholly within their own Deployment Zone. If a player runs out of models to set up, the other player sets up all their remaining models, one after another, until they have none left. Once the players have set up their models, deployment ends, and t he game begins. Infiltrators Infiltrators must deploy normally (they cannot use their special dep loyment rules). TRAIN WAGONS The train was carrying supply crates containing precious weapons, materials, and holy relics. The supply crates are spread between the three wagons, which can be reached through the doors on the sides of the wagons. However, the doors on the sides of each wagon start the game locked. Train Wagons cannot be destroyed or removed for any reason. * * Unlock Wagon ACTION : A model within 1” of a locked door can take an Unlock Wagon ACTION . If it does so, take a Success Roll for the model. If the roll is a Failure, nothing happens (another model can try to unlock the door later in the same Turn). The door is unlocked and opened if the roll is a Success or Critical Success, revealing D3 Supply Crates inside. Place a Supply Crate Marker beside the wagon to show how many Supply Crates are inside it. If the door on the other side is unlocked, it can be used to reach any Supply Crates that remain inside, but does not generate an y more of them. Scenario Format IV I VII II VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios V


166 Scenarios- Trench Crusade * * Open Crate ACTION : A model within 1” of an unlocked door on a wagon with any Supply Crate Markers still beside it, or within 1” of a Supply Crate Marker that has been carried by another model and dropped, can take an Open Crate ACTION . If it does so, choose one of the following three options for the model (you do not have to make a Success Roll): 1. Carry Crate: The model can carry the crate. Put the Supply Crate Markers in contact with the model’s base to show it is carrying it. The only thing a model carrying a crate can do is take Move or Retreat ACTIONS - it cannot do anything else while it has the crate. a. At the end of its Activation, you can say that a model that is carrying a crate will either drop it or hand it to a friendly model that is within 1”, or choose to Destroy or Draw Supplies from the crate as described below. When a model drops the crate, place it within 1” of the model and not in contact with any other models. When a model hands the crate on, place the Supply Crate Marker in contact with the othe r model’s base. b. If a model carrying a crate is taken Down or Out of Action, or is chosen as the target of a Melee Attack, it immediately drops the crate as d escribed above. c. If a model carrying a crate finishes its Activation in contact with any edge of the battlefield, it can escape with the crate; remove the model and the Supply Crate Marker from the battlefield ( ▶ see Victory Points) . The model is still considered part of the Warband for the purposes of Morale Checks. 2. Destroy Crate: Take a Success Roll for the model. If the roll is a Failure, nothing happens. If the roll is a Success or a Critical Success, the Supply Crate Marker is destroyed (remove it from th e battlefield). 3. Draw Supplies: Take a Success Roll for the model. If the roll is a failure, nothing happens. If the roll is a Success or a Critical Success, place a BLESSING MARKER next to the model and the crate is emptied (remove it from th e battlefield). Scenario Format IV I VII II VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios V


167 Scenarios- Trench Crusade GAME LENGTH This scenario la sts five Turns. VIC TORY CONDITIONS A player wins this scenario immediately if there are no enemy models on the battlefield or if the opposing Warband flees (typically due to failing a Morale Check). Otherwise, the player with more Victory Points at the end of the game is the winner. Victory Points * * At the end of the game each player scores: * 1 VP for each Glorious Deed they completed. * 1 VP for each crate a friendly model drew supplies from. * 2 VPs for each crate a friendly m odel destroyed. * 3 VPs for each crate that a friendly mode l escaped with. GLORIOUS DEEDS * * King of the Hill: A friendly model ends 3 consecutive Turns on top of an embankment or the bridge and within 3” of a wagon. * * Meat-Grinder: A friendly model takes 3 enemy models Out of Action during the game using Ranged Attacks made with t he Gun Battery. * * No Stone Left Unturned: A friendly model unlocks two di fferent wagons. * * Over the Enemy Line: A friendly model escapes with a crate when it is wholly within the enemy D eployment Zone. * * Supply Run: Two friendly models escape with a crate. The model that escaped with the second crate is credited with completing this Glorious Deed. Scenario Format IV I VII II VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios VI V


168 Scenarios- Trench Crusade V I º Dragon Hunt For the glory of your Patron, hunt and defeat a monstrous creature, be it a possessed tank or a hellish beast. FORCES The players will additionally need a Dragon model and 6 Peasant models. The rules and Warband Entries for these models can be found below. THE BATTLEFIELD The players roll-off and the winner sets up the Dragon, the terrain and the Peasants for the game. This scenario uses the No Man’s Land or Trench Lines battlefield archetype (the player setting up the terrain decides whi ch one to use). 28” MIDPOINT DEPLOYMENT ZONE DEPLOYMENT ZONE Scenario Format IV I V VII II VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios V VI


169 Scenarios- Trench Crusade The Dragon & The Peasants The Dragon model is set up before setting up the terrain for this battle and the 6 Peasant models are set up after the terrain has been set up. Deploy the Dragon so that it covers the midpoint of the battlefield. Deploy the Peasants anywhere on the battlefield that is more than 8” from the Dragon, and more than 6” from any other Peasant or either side’s D eployment Zone. DEPLOYMENT The players roll-off. The winner of the roll-off chooses which Deployment Zone will be theirs. The other Deployment Zone is their opponent’s. The players then alternate deploying their models one at a time, starting with the player who has more models in their Warband (roll-off if both players have the same number of models). Models must be set up wholly within their own Deployment Zone. If a player runs out of models, the other player sets up all their remaining models, one after another, until they have none left. Once the players have set up their models, deployment ends, and t he game begins. Infiltrators Infiltrators can deploy normally or by using their special deployment rules. However, if they deploy using their special deployment rules, they cannot deploy within 8” of the Dragon or 1 ” of a Peasant. NEUTRAL MODELS The Dragon and the Peasants are neutral models. Neutral models are treated as enemy models by both sides. Neutral Model A ctivation Rolls When a player finishes an Activation with one of their models, they must take a Neutral Model Activation Roll by rolling a D6. If they roll a 1-4, they can Activate a Peasant of their choice, and on a 5-6, they can Activate the Dragon or a Peasant of their choice. A player cannot Activate a model that has already been Activated (by either player). Once the Dragon and all of the Peasants have been Activated during a Turn, the players stop making Neutral Model Activation Rolls until the following Turn. When a player Activates a neutral model, they must carry out an Activation with it using the rules for the Dragon and the Peasants below. If a player runs out of models from their own Warband to Activate and there are still neutral models remaining to Activate, they must still make Neutral Model Activation Rolls. Note that once the Dragon has been Activated, there is no longer any need to make the Neutral Model Activation Rolls; the players can just pick a Peasant that has yet to be Activated and Activate them. In the unlikely event that the Dragon remains to be Activated after both players have finished Activating models from their Warband, just roll-off and the winner Activa tes the Dragon. Scenario Format IV I V VII II VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios VI


170 Scenarios- Trench Crusade THE DRAGON The Dragon is represented by a model on a base between 120mm and 300mm. Ideally, it should be large enough and shaped in such a way that two models on 60mm bases (or four models on 25mm bases) could stand on it at once. It can be a Larval Beast, a Possessed Tank, an actual Dragon, or any other large im posing monster. Th e Dragon’s Prey When a player Activates the Dragon, they must first choose its prey. They then take 1 Move ACTION and 1 Shoot or 1 Fight ACTION with the Dragon. If the Dragon is not within 1” of its prey at the start of its Activation, it will move as described below and then attack. If the Dragon is within 1” of its prey at the start of its Activation, it will attack before it moves. If the attack takes the prey Out of Action, choose new prey and then move the Dragon as d escribed below. The Dragon’s prey is determined by using the following list of priorities: * * If a model attacked the Dragon this Turn or in the last Turn, and the model is not on the Dragon’s back, then it becomes the Dragon’s prey. If several models are eligible, the closest eligible model to the Dragon becomes its prey. If two or more eligible models are equally close to the Dragon, the player can choose which mod el is its prey. * * If the Dragon was not attacked in this Turn or the last Turn, or if it was attacked and the attacking models have been taken Out of Action, then the Peasant closest to the Dragon becomes its prey. If two or more Peasants are equally close to the Dragon, the player can choose which mod el is its prey. * * If no Peasants are left on the battlefield, and the Dragon was not attacked in this Turn or the last Turn, then it has no prey and will instead attempt to leave t he battlefield. Attacking with the Dragon When the Dragon attacks, it will target its prey if it can do so. Otherwise, it will target the nearest model that it can attack. If two or more potential targets are equally close to the Dragon, the player can choose which model it attacks. The Dragon will make a Melee Attack with its Teeth and Claws if it is within 1” of its target. If it is not within 1” of the target but is within 10” of it, it will make a Ranged Attack with its Fire Breath. If it is not within 10” of its target, it d oes not attack. Mo ving the Dragon The player must move the Dragon towards its prey so that it finishes either in contact with it or if that is impossible, as close to its prey as possible. If the Dragon has no prey, move it so that it finishes the move as close as possible to the nearest edge of the battlefield. If it reaches the edge of the battlefield, it leaves and is removed from the battlefield ( ▶ see Victory Conditions ). Note that the Dragon’s Siege Weapon ability allows it to move across terrain, and its Crush ability allows it to move over models when trying to reach its prey ( ▶ s ee the Dragon) . Scenario Format IV I V VII II VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios VI


171 Scenarios- Trench Crusade The Dragon This massive entity is wreaking havoc, tearing through the afflicted, plague-ridden villages surrounding No Man’s Land. Descriptions of the monster are wildly inconsistent. While some believe it to be a newborn Larval Beast, others report sighting a Possessed Tank. Whispers abound of an Angelic creature gone rogue, and some even say it is an actual Dragon. All accounts agree on its immense size and the trail of destruction and bloodshed it leaves behind. Showing no allegiance, it has trampled warbands and strongholds alike, spreading chaos in discriminately. Movement Ranged Melee Armour Base 10”/Infantry +3 DICE +3 DICE -3 120-300mm Battlekit The Dragon does not have any Battlekit. Abilities * * Fire Breath: The Dragon can make a Ranged Attack even though it does not have any Ranged Weapons. A Fire Breath attack has a Range of 10” and the +2 DICE , BLAST 3”, FIRE , IGNORE ARMOUR , and SC ATTER Keywords. * * Deadly Teeth and Claws: The Dragon can make a Melee Attack even though it does not have any Melee Weapons. A Teeth and Claws attack has the +1 DICE , +1 INJURY DICE , and IGNORE A RMOUR Keywords. * * Tail Swipe: After you make a Melee Attack with the Dragon, if it is still within 1” of any models that are not on its back, make a Melee Attack against each of the models that are not on its back in the order of your choice. A Tail Swipe attack has the +1 INJURY MO DIFIER Keyword. * * Living Battlefield: Models can treat the Dragon and its base as if they were Dangerous terrain, and can finish a move on top of the Dragon’s model. All Success Rolls for a model on top of the Dragon become Risky Success Rolls if they are not already. Attacks made by a model that is on top of the Dragon and target it get +1 DICE and +1 INJURY DICE . The Dragon cannot attack a model that is on top of it. When the Dragon moves, any models on top of the Dragon are moved with it. After the Dragon’s move is finished, make a Success Roll for each model on it. If the roll is a Failure, the model Falls from the Dragon. Move it the shortest possible distance to the ground and place it Down, and then make an Injury Roll for it if it has Fallen 3” or more. If the roll is a Success or Critical Success, nothing happens. Take the Success Roll in the same way if a model on top of the Dragon is taken Down for any reason. Scenario Format IV I V VII II VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios VI


172 Scenarios- Trench Crusade * * Siege Weapon: The Dragon can move over terrain pieces that measure up to 4” by 4” as if they were Open terrain. If it does so, the terrain piece is removed from the game when the Dragon moves into contact with it. Models that were on top of the terrain piece Fall directly down to the battlefield; an additional Injury Roll may have to be made for them if they Fall 3” or more, or if they land where they may be Trampled by the Dragon as it carries on with its move. * * Crush: The Dragon can move over other models. If it does so, make an Injury Roll for the model when the Dragon moves into contact with it, as if the model had been hit with an attack with the +1 INJURY MODIFIER and IGNORE ARMOUR Keywords. The Dragon then continues with its move. Leave the model where it was if the Dragon moves beyond it. If the Dragon would end up on top of the model, move it by the shortest distance possible so that it will not be underneath the Dragon (even if it is Down). If it is not possible to move the model out of the way for any reason, it is removed from play and counts as being taken Out of Action in the Campaign Phase. * * Resistant: Remove 1 BLOOD MARKER from the Dragon when it is Activated. In addition, add -1 INJURY DICE to Injury Rolls for the Dragon if the attack has one or more of the following Keywords: FIRE , GA S , or SHRAPNEL . * * Undying: The first, second, and third time the Dragon suffers an Out of Action result on the Injury Table, it is treated as a Down result instead. It then loses the Undying ability and replaces it with the D efiant ability: * * Defiant: When the Dragon suffers an Out of Action result on the Injury Table, it is treated as a Down result instead. The Defiant ability is lost immediately when the sixth BLOOD MARKER is placed next to the Dragon (from then on, Out of Action results will affec t it normally.) Keywords FEAR Scenario Format IV I V VII II VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios VI


173 Scenarios- Trench Crusade The Peasants The Peasants are represented by suitably bedraggled and oppressed-looking models. The only thing an Activated Peasant model can do is take a Move or Retreat ACTION . When a player moves a Peasant model, they must do so so that it finishes the move as close as possible to the nearest edge of the battlefield. A Peasant will never enter Dangerous terrain, Climb, Jump, or Jump Down. If you are ever required to take a Success Roll for a Peasant, add -3 DICE to their roll. If a Peasant reaches the edge of the battlefield, they leave and are removed from the battlefield ( ▶ see Victo ry Conditions) . The Peasants The war has taken its toll on the peasantry. Many are suffering from never-before- seen ailments and diseases, their contaminated state is the main reason they have not been evacuated from the battlefield. Rescuing them is not an option. They pose a great risk to the troops. So, putting an end to their miserable lives is the only rig ht thing to do. Movement Ranged Melee Armour Base 5”/Infantry - - 0 25mm Battlekit Peasants do not have any Battlekit. Abilities * * Feeble: Add +2 DICE and +2 INJURY DICE to the rolls for attacks that ta rget a Peasant. Keywords None Scenario Format IV I V VII II VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios VI


174 Scenarios- Trench Crusade GAME LENGTH At the end of the fourth Turn, the attacker rolls a D6. On a 1 or 2, the game ends immediately. On a 3 or more, the game will end at the end of the fifth Turn. VIC TORY CONDITIONS A player wins this scenario immediately if there are no enemy models on the battlefield or if the opposing Warband flees (typically due to failing a Morale Check). The game ends immediately in a draw if the Dragon leaves the battlefield. Otherwise, the player with more Victory Points at the end of the game is the winner. Victory Points The players must keep a running tally of the Victory Points they score during the game. Victory Points are scored for the fo llowing things: * * Each player scores: * 2 VPs if an attack made by a friendly model takes a Peasant Out of Action. * 3 VPs if an attack made by a friendly model takes the Dragon Down (including when its Undying or Defiant abilities change the result to a Down result). * 6 VPs if an attack made by a friendly model takes the Dragon Out of Action (unless its Undying or Defiant abilities change the result to a Down result). * At the end of the game each player scores 1 VP for each Glorious Deed they completed. GLORIOUS DEEDS * * Dragon Slayer: A friendly model on top of the Dragon takes the Dragon Out of Action with a Melee Attack (unless its Undying or Defiant abilities change the result to a Down result). You receive 2 ☼ for completing this Glorious Deed. * * Fire with Fire: An attack made by a friendly model that has the FIRE , GAS and/or SHRAPNEL Keyword causes 2 BLOOD MARKERS to be placed next to the Dragon. * * Genocidal: A model takes 3 Peasants Out of Action. * * Opportunist: A model is within 3” of a Peasant when the Peasant is trampled by the Dragon. * * Off My Back: A friendly model takes a model that is on top of the Dragon Down, and the model then Falls off the Dragon. Scenario Format IV I V II VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios VII VI


175 Scenarios- Trench Crusade VI I º Supply Raid Raid enemy supplies or defend your caches f rom an assault. FORCES Before picking their Forces, the players must decide who is the attacker and who is the defender in this scenario. The player with the most models in their Warband (ignoring their Threshold Values or Field Strength) is the attacker in this scenario, and their opponent is the defender. If both players have the same number of models, they roll-off and the winner can decide who will be the attacker and who will b e the defender. THE BATTLEFIELD The players roll-off and the winner sets up the terrain for the game. This scenario uses the No Man’s Land or Decimated Ruins battlefield archetype (the player setting up the te rrain decides). 24” DEPLOYMENT ZONE DEPLOYMENT ZONE Scenario Format IV I V II VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios VII


176 Scenarios- Trench Crusade Suppl y Cache Markers After the terrain has been set up, the players must set up 6 Supply Cache Markers. The players alternate setting up the Markers, one at a time, starting with the defender. Supply Cache Markers must be set up more than 6” from the edge of the battlefield, more than 6” away from any other Markers and more than 1” from Impassable terrain. Only one Marker can be placed in the defender’s Deployment Zone, and none can be placed within 12" of the attacker’s D eployment Zone. * * Destroying Supply Caches: A player can choose a Supply Cache Marker as the target for a Ranged Attack with the HEAVY Keyword, or a Melee Attack of any type. If the attack is a Success or a Critical Success, the Supply Cache Marker is destroyed (remove it from th e battlefield). DEPLOYMENT The players roll-off. The winner of the roll-off chooses which Deployment Zone will be theirs. The other Deployment Zone is their opponent’s. Before deploying any models, the players must set up 6 Supply Cache Markers as described above. The players then alternate deploying their models one at a time, starting with the player who has more models in their Warband (roll-off if both players have the same number of models). The defender may deploy a maximum of 6 models. The attacker may deploy a maximum of 6+D3 models. Any models that cannot be deployed are available as reinforcements. Models must be set up wholly within their own Deployment Zone. If a player runs out of models to set up, the other player sets up all their remaining models, one after another, until they have none left. Once the players have set up their models, deployment ends, and t he game begins. Infiltrators Infiltrators can deploy normally or by using their special de ployment rules. REINFORCEMENTS At the start of each Turn, the players roll-off. The winner rolls a D3 to see how many reinforcement models each of the players can deploy. The players then alternate deploying reinforcement models, one at a time, starting with the player that won the roll-off. Reinforcement models must be deployed touching the edge of the battlefield, wholly within their Deployment Zone, and more than 8” from the closest enemy model. If a player runs out of reinforcement models, the opposing player can set up any remaining reinforcements they have available up to the limit set for the Turn. Players must set up reinforcements if they have any available and are allowed to do so (you can’t choose to h old them back). Scenario Format IV I V II VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios VII


177 Scenarios- Trench Crusade GAME LENGTH This scenario la sts four Turns. VIC TORY CONDITIONS A player wins this scenario immediately if there are no enemy models on the battlefield after any reinforcements have been deployed or if the opposing Warband flees (typically due to failing a Morale Check). Otherwise, the player with more Victory Points at the end of the game is the winner. Victory Points * * At the end of the game the attacker scores 1 VP for each Supply Cache Marker that has been destroyed. * * At the end of the game the defender scores 2 VPs for each Supply Cache Marker that has not been destroyed. * * At the end of the game each player scores 1 VP for each enemy model taken Out of Action and 1 VP for each Glorious Deed they completed. GLORIOUS DEEDS * * Daring Raid (Attacker only): A friendly model destroys a Suppl y Cache Marker. * * Hold your Ground: A Warband is the first to pass a Morale Check in this game. You receive a Victory Point for achieving this Glorious Deed. In a campaign game you can award 1 Experience Point to 1 ELITE model from the Warband that has the LEADER Keyword if you have one available, and you receive Glory Points and an extra D6 for your Promotion Pool as you would normally. * * Rampage (Attacker only): A friendly model destroys a second Suppl y Cache Marker. * * Save the Supplies! (Defender only): If there are four or more Supply Cache Markers that have not been destroyed at the e nd of the game. * * Stop Them! (Defender only): A friendly model takes an enemy Out of Action if the enemy is fully or partially within their own D eployment Zone. * * Victory or Death: A Warband wins the game. This Glorious Deed is only used in campaign games and is determined after the result of the game has been decided. You do not receieve any Victory Points for acheiving this Glorious Deed, but you can award 1 Experience Point to 1 ELITE model from the Warband that has the LEADER Keyword if you have one available, and you receive Glory Points and an extra D6 for your Promotion Pool as you would normally. Scenario Format IV I V II VI III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios VIII VII


178 Scenarios- Trench Crusade V III º From Below Conquer a pock-marked battlefield, but be careful not to rouse the beast that sl umbers beneath. FORCES No special restrictions apply to the models the players can include in their Forces in this scenario. THE BATTLEFIELD The players roll-off and the winner sets up the terrain for the game. This scenario can use any battlefield archetype (the player setting up the terrain decides whi ch one to use). Ic hor Pit Markers The 3 central Markers inside circles shown on the map represent Ichor Pits. Place the Ichor Pit Markers at the locations shown on the map before setting up any terrain. Terrain pieces cannot be set up within 1” of an Ic hor Pit Marker. 28” MIDPOINT DEPLOYMENT ZONE DEPLOYMENT ZONE 12” 12” 12” 12” 9” 9” 6” 6” 6” 6” 14” 14” Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios VIII


179 Scenarios- Trench Crusade Artillery Shells Markers The 4 remaining Markers shown on the map represent Artillery Shells. After setting up any terrain, place the Artillery Shell Markers at the locations sh own on the map. DEPLOYMENT The players roll-off. The winner of the roll-off chooses which Deployment Zone will be theirs. The other Deployment Zone is their opponent’s. The players then alternate deploying their models one at a time, starting with the player who has more models in their Warband (roll-off if both players have the same number of models). In this scenario, the players can only deploy half the models from their Force (rounding fractions up). Any remaining models are not used and are placed to one side. Models must be set up wholly within their own Deployment Zone. If a player runs out of models to set up, the other player sets up all their remaining models, one after another, until they have none left. Once the players have set up their models, deployment ends, and t he game begins. Infiltrators Infiltrators can deploy normally or by using their special deployment rules. However, if they deploy using their special deployment rules, they cannot deploy within 6” of a Marker. IC HOR PIT MARKERS The entire battlefield was unknowingly built atop the back of a slumbering Larval Beast Lord. The unending barrage of shelling and gunfire has torn open wounds the size of pits across the monster’s back, each one filled with toxic ichor. This rare substance can corrode metal, flesh, and bone, carries unnamed diseases, and brims with properties not yet understood. Despite the immense risk of harvesting it and awakening the beast, the prize is simply too gr eat to pass up. Open ground and terrain within 2” of the centre of the Ichor Pit Marker is treated as being Difficult and Dangerous terrain, in addition to any other terrain rule s it may have. Each Ichor Pit contains enough Ichor to fill 6 Ichor Vials ( ▶ see below). We recommend you keep track of how many vials have been filled from a pit by putting a D6 on top of the Marker. An Ichor Pit with no Ichor left is no longer Dan gerous Terrain. Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios VIII


180 Scenarios- Trench Crusade Ichor Vials Each model in this scenario has 3 empty Ichor Vials (even if they are not usually allowed to take Battlekit or Equipment). Each player must keep track of how many empty and filled Ichor Vials the models in their Warband are carrying. If a model is taken Out of Action, place a Vials Marker at their location and record how many empty or filled Ichor Vials it represents. All models in this scenario can take the following ACTIONS (no Success Rolls are necessary): * * Fill Vial ACTION : A model with an empty Ichor Vial that is in contact with the centre of an Ichor Pit Marker can take a Fill Vial ACTION . If it does so, it fills 1 empty Ichor V ial with Ichor. * * Trade Vials ACTION : A mode l that is in contact with a friendly model can take a Trade Vials ACTION . If it does so, you can swap any number of empty or filled Ichor Vials between the two models. * * Steal Vials ACTION : A model that is in contact with a Vials Marker or an enemy model that is Down can take a Steals Vials ACTION . If it does so, you can take any number of empty or filled Ichor Vials from the Vials Marker or enemy model. * * Extract Vials ACTION : A model that is in contact with the longest edge of the battlefield in a Deployment Zone can take an Extract Vials ACTION . If it does so, you can extract any number of filled Ichor Vials from the model and replace them with emp ty Ichor Vials. ARTILLERY SHELLS MARKERS A player can choose an Artillery Shells Marker as the target for an attack. If the attack is a Success or a Critical Success, the Artillery Shells Marker explodes. An Artillery Shells Marker will also explode if it is caught in the radius of an attack with the BLAST Keyword. When an Artillery Shells Marker explodes, the players must first determine if the Beast awakens ( ▶ see below). If the Beast does not awaken, all models within 3” of it are hit in the same way as if they had been hit by an Infernal Bomb from the Heretic Legions Faction List ( ▶ see Infernal Bomb in Warbands of Trench Crusade). Then the Artillery Shells Marker is replaced with an Ichor Pit Marker and the players must set up Hell Ticks as d escribed below. THE BEAST “I saw a great beast rise up from beneath, having seven amalgamated heads with ten mouths, and in each mouth, a thousand teeth and a hundred tongues, and upon its body were carved marks of blasphemy and the sigi ls of the end.” -New Syncretic Orthodox Bible Explosions caused by the piles of artillery shells may awaken the Beast. If the Beast awakens, all models that remain on the battlefield are taken Out of Action and the game ends ( ▶ see Victo ry Conditions) . * * First Explosion: The Beast twitches, causing a minor tremor across the battlefield. Roll a D6 for each model that is not Down. On a roll of 6 the model is taken Down. Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios VIII


181 Scenarios- Trench Crusade * * Second Explosion: Roll a D6. On a roll of 4-6, the Beast awakens. * * Third Explosion: Roll a D6. On a roll of 3-6, the Beast awakens. * * Fourth Explosion: The Beast awakens. Ca ll of the Beast Starting with the first explosion of a pile of artillery shells, the Larval Beast’s wail of torment echoes through the valley, summoning the parasites buried within its own flesh to the surface. These bloated, bloodthirsty Hell Ticks claw and tear their way out of the creature’s body, swarming across the battlefield, ready to feast upon any living being they can sink th eir fangs into. If the Beast does not awaken after an explosion, the players roll-off and the winner can set up D3 Hell Tick models within 8” of the centre of the Ichor Pit Marker created by the explosion and more than 1” away from any other models. Hell Ticks are neutral models ( ▶ see below). Each Hell Ticks can be represented by a small and suitably insect-like model. If no suitable models are available, represent the m with Markers. Neutral Model A ctivation Rolls Hell Ticks are neutral models. Neutral models are treated as enemy models by both sides. In addition, when a player finishes an Activation with one of their models, they must take a Neutral Model Activation Roll by rolling a D6. If they roll a 1-4, they can Activate a Hell Tick of their choice. They cannot Activate a Hell Tick that has already been Activated (by either player). Once the Hell Ticks have been Activated during a Turn, stop making Neutral Model Activation Rolls until the following Turn. When a player Activates a Hell Tick, they must carry out an Activation with it using th e rules below. If a player runs out of models from their own Warband to Activate and there are still Hell Ticks remaining to Activate, they must still make Neutral Model Activation Rolls. In the event that any Hell Ticks remain to be Activated after both players have finished Activating models from their Warband, just roll-off for each one, the winner must Acti vate the model. Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios VIII


182 Scenarios- Trench Crusade He ll Tick Actions When a player Activates a Hell Tick, they must first choose its prey ( ▶ see below). They must then take 1 Move ACTION and 1 Dash ACTION or 1 Fight ACTION with the Hell Tick. If the Hell Tick is not within 1” of its prey, it will move as described below and then Fight if it is within 1” of its prey or Dash if it is not. If the Hell Tick starts within 1” of its prey, it will attack before it moves. If the attack takes the prey Out of Action, choose new prey and then move the Hell Tick as d escribed below. The Hell Tick’s chosen prey is determined by using the following list of priorities: * * If there are any models within 20” of the Hell Tick that have BLOOD MARKERS , then it will choose the model with the most BLOOD MARKERS as its prey. If two or more models have the same number of BLOOD MARKERS , it will choose the closest as its prey. If two or more models are equally close, the player can choose which mod el is its prey. * * If there are no models within 20” of the Hell Tick that have BLOOD MARKERS , then it will choose the closest as its prey. If two or more models are equally close, the player can choose which mod el is its prey. * * Ignore other Hell Tick models when working out a Hell Tick ’s chosen prey. Movin g the Hell Tick A player must move a Hell Tick towards its prey so that it finishes either in contact with it, or if that is impossible, as close to its pr ey as possible. Attacking wit h the Hell Tick When the Hell Tick attacks, it will target its prey if it can do so. Otherwise, it will target the nearest model it can attack. If two or more potential targets are equally close to the Hell Tick, the player can choose which model it attacks. When a Hell Tick attacks, it makes a Melee Attack using its Man dibles ability. Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios VIII


183 Scenarios- Trench Crusade Hell Ticks Hell Ticks infest No Man’s Land. Creatures of monstrous size with a voracious appetite for blood. Infestation follows wherever the path of the Beast cuts th rough the land. Movement Ranged Melee Armour Base 10”/Infantry - +1 DICE 0 25mm Battlekit Hell Ticks do not have any Battlekit. Abilities * * Mandibles: A Hell Tick can make a Melee Attack even though it does not have a Melee Weapon. Add +1 INJURY DICE to rolls for a Melee Attack made by a Hell Tick. Whenever a Melee Attack made by a Hell Tick causes any BLOOD MARKERS to be placed on the target, you can remove up to 1 BLOOD MARKER from the attacking H ell Tick model. * * Poisoned: Whenever a Melee Attack made by a Hell Tick causes any BLOOD MARKERS to be placed on the target, the target model becomes poisoned (it cannot be poisoned more than once). When you Activate a friendly model that has been poisoned, you must place 1 BLOOD MARKER next to the model. You can then spend a BLESSING MARKER that is next to the model if you wish to do so. If you do, the model is no l onger poisoned. Keywords None Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios VIII


184 Scenarios- Trench Crusade GAME LENGTH The game ends if the Beast awakens. In addition, at the end of the fourth Turn, the attacker rolls a D6. On a 1 or 2, the game ends immediately. On a 3 or more, the game will end at the end of the fifth Turn, provided the Beast fails to awak en before then. VIC TORY CONDITIONS A player wins this scenario immediately if there are no enemy models on the battlefield, or if the opposing Warband flees (typically due to failing a Morale Check). The game ends immediately in a draw if the Beast awakens. Otherwise, the player with more Victory Points at the end of the game is the winner. Victory Points * * At the end of the game each player scores 1 VP for each Ichor Vial that they extracted and 1 VP for each Glorious Deed they completed d uring the game. GLORIOUS DEEDS * * Bloodlust: A friendly model that has been poisoned uses a Bloodbath Roll to take an enemy model that has been poisoned Out of Action. You can convert an Injury Roll into a Bloodbath Roll by spending BLOOD MARKERS ( ▶ see BLOOD MARKERS ) . * * For Science: A friendly model extracts 3 Ichor Vials. * * Ichor Frenzy: A friendly model extracts an Ichor Vial when it is wholly within the enemy D eployment Zone. * * Risk Taker: A friendly model causes an explosion that takes 2 or more enemy models Out of Action. * * Sadistic Wretch: A friendly model causes an enemy model to be taken Out of Action by causing it to move int o an Ichor Pit. * * Vial Thief: A friendly model steals an Ichor Vial from an enemy model and then manages to extract it. Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI III X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios IX VIII


185 Scenarios- Trench Crusade IX º Fields of Glory Show your might and bravery. Fight to the glorious death and let your legend live on. FORCES No special restrictions apply to the models the players can include in their Forces in this scenario. THE BATTLEFIELD The players roll-off and the winner sets up the terrain for the game. This scenario uses the Trench Lines battlef ield archetype. 24” DEPLOYMENT ZONE DEPLOYMENT ZONE Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI VIII III X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios IX


186 Scenarios- Trench Crusade DEPLOYMENT The players roll-off. The winner of the roll-off chooses which Deployment Zone will be theirs. The other Deployment Zone is their opponent’s. The players then alternate deploying their models one at a time, starting with the player who has more models in their Warband (roll-off if both players have the same number of models). Models must be set up wholly within their own Deployment Zone. If a player runs out of models to set up, the other player sets up all their remaining models, one after another, until they have none left. Once the players have set up their models, deployment ends, and t he game begins. Infiltrators Infiltrators can deploy normally or by using their special de ployment rules. GAME LENGTH This scenario la sts four Turns. VIC TORY CONDITIONS A player wins this scenario immediately if there are no enemy models on the battlefield, or if the opposing Warband flees (typically due to failing a Morale Check). Otherwise, the player with more Victory Points at the end of the game is the winner. Victory Points * * At the end of the game each player scores: * 1 VP for each Glorious Deed they completed. * 1 extra VP for each of the following Glorious Deeds they completed: Elite Hunter, Personal Revenge, a nd Risk It All. * 2 extra VPs if they completed the Trench Raider Glorious Deed. GLORIOUS DEEDS * * Death From Above: A friendly model takes an enemy model Out of Action with a Melee Attack that has the Diving C harge modifier. * * Elite Hunter: A friendly model takes two enemy models with the ELITE Keyword Out of Action. * * No Escape: A friendly model successfully charges an enemy model that it did not have a Line of Sight to at the start of its Activation. * * Personal Revenge: A friendly model uses a Bloodbath Roll to take an enemy model Out of Action if the enemy model had taken a friendly model Out of Action earli er in the game. * * Reaper: A friendly model takes three enemy models Out of Action. * * Risk It All: A friendly model takes two Risky Success Rolls in the same Activation, and both are a Success or Cr itical Success. * * The Real Killer: A friendly model takes an enemy model that is on Dangerous or Difficult terrain Out of Action. * * Trench Raider: A Warband captures a trench section that is at least 6” long and is wholly within 8” of the enemy Deployment Zone. A Warband captures a trench section if there are 1 or more friendly models in the trench and no enemy models are w ithin 1” of it. Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI VIII III XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios X IX


187 Scenarios- Trench Crusade X º Don’t Breathe Beware of poison gas as you assault enemy bunkers or drive back the attackers with the power of mustard gas! FORCES Before picking their Forces, the players must decide who is the attacker and who is the defender in this scenario. The player with the most models in their Warband (ignoring their Threshold Values or Field Strength) is the attacker in this scenario and their opponent is the defender. If both players have the same number of models, they roll-off and the winner decides who will be the attacker and who will b e the defender. THE BATTLEFIELD The players roll-off and the winner sets up the terrain for the game. This scenario uses the No Man’s Land battlefield archetype and requires a battlefield that is 48" by 48". When setting up the terrain for this scenario, do not set up any terrain in either D eployment Zone. 18” 20 10 ATTACKER DEPLOYMENT ZONE 12 MINE PLACEMENT AREA DEFEMDER DEPLOYMENT AREA Trench Section Trench Section Trench Section Trench Section Trench Section Trench Section Bunker Bunker Bunker Bunker Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI VIII III IX XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios X


188 Scenarios- Trench Crusade DEPLOYMENT The players roll-off. The winner of the roll-off chooses which Deployment Zone will be theirs. The other Deployment Zone is their opponent’s. Before any models are deployed, the defender must set up their Trench Lines, Bunkers, and Gas Mine Markers as described below. The players then alternate deploying their models one at a time, starting with the attacker. The players alternate deploying their models one at a time, starting with the attacker. The defender may deploy a maximum of 6 models. The attacker may deploy a maximum of 6+D3 models. Any models that cannot be deployed are available as reinforcements ( ▶ see below) . Models must be set up wholly within their own Deployment Zone. If a player runs out of models to set up, the other player sets up all their remaining models, one after another, until they have none left. Once the players have set up their models, deployment ends, and t he game begins. Defendi ng Trench Lines The defender must set up six trench sections that are at least 8” long at the locations shown on the map. They can add additional trench sections of any size if they wish to, but all must be set up wholly within their Deployment Zone and more than 3” from the centre of where any of the Bunker Markers will be placed. Bunkers Markers The Bunker Markers represent heavily armoured entrenchments. After the Defender has set up their Trenches, they must set up four terrain pieces on top of where a Bunker Marker will be set up. They must use Intact Building terrain pieces if available (if they run out of Buildings, they can use whatever terrain pieces they wish). Place each Bunker Marker anywhere on the terrain piece that covers its starting position; the whole of the terrain piece is treated as the Bunker in this scenario. Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI VIII III IX XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios X


189 Scenarios- Trench Crusade G as Mine Markers After the defender sets up their Trenches, they can set up 12 Gas Mine Markers. At least 8 of the Gas Mine Markers must be placed wholly within the Gas Mine Placement Area. Up to 4 can be placed wholly within the defender’s Deployment Zone. After setting the Gas Mine Markers up, the defender must secretly write down which 4 of the Gas Mine Markers are duds. All of the other Gas Mine Markers are live and have the MINED Keyword and the following special rules. * * Choking Mines: As soon as a model moves within 3” of a Gas Mine Marker, temporarily halt its move. The defender must then reveal if the Gas Mine Marker is a dud. If it is, nothing happens. If it is a live mine, it detonates in the same way as if the model had moved into contact with a Marker with the MINED Keyword. The Gas Mine Marker is then removed and replaced with a Gas Cloud Marker. The moving model can then carry on with its move as long as it wasn’t taken Down or Out of Action. Models with the FLYING Keyword only trigger a Gas Mine Marker if they finish a move in contact with it (they can fly across it without set ting it off ). * * Gas Cloud Markers: Place 1 BLOOD MARKER next to each model that is within 6” of the centre of a Gas Cloud Marker when it is set up. In addition, place 1 BLOOD MARKER next to a model that is within 6” of the centre of a Gas Cloud Marker when the mode l is Activated. * * Detonating Gas Cloud Markers: A model can choose a Gas Cloud Marker as the target for an attack with a weapon that has the BLAST or FIRE Keyword. If the attack is a Success or a Critical Success, the Gas Cloud Marker explodes. A Gas Cloud Marker will also explode if it is caught in the radius of an attack with the BLAST Keyword. * * Gas Cloud Explosions: When a Gas Cloud Marker explodes, make an Injury Roll for each model within 3” of the Marker as if they had been hit by a weapon with the +2 INJURY DICE and FIRE Keywords. If the model is not taken Out of Action by the Injury Roll, it is blown away D3” in a straight line directly away from the centre of the Marker. The model stops if it is blown into another model, Impassable terrain, or terrain it cannot cross without having to Climb. The Gas Cloud Marker is then removed from t he battlefield. Infiltrators Infiltrators can deploy normally or by using their special deployment rules. Attacking models that deploy using their special deployment rules cannot deploy within 8” of a Bunker Marker. Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI VIII III IX XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios X


190 Scenarios- Trench Crusade REINFORCEMENTS At the start of each Turn, the players roll-off. The winner rolls a D3 to see how many reinforcement models each of the players can deploy. The players then alternate deploying reinforcement models, one at a time, starting with the player that won the roll-off. Reinforcement models must be deployed touching the edge of the battlefield, wholly within their Deployment Zone, and more than 8” from the closest enemy model. If a player runs out of reinforcement models, the opposing player can set up any remaining reinforcements they have available up to the limit set for the Turn. Players must set up reinforcements if they have any available and are allowed to do so (you can’t choose to h old them back). DES TROYING BUNKERS Models on the attacking side with the ELITE Keyword have Demo Charges even if they are not usually allowed to take Battlekit or Equipment. A model that has Demo Charges can take the following ACTIONS (no Success Rolls a re necessary): * * Place Demo Charge ACTION : A model that has Demo Charges and is in contact with a Bunker can take an ACTION to place the Demo Charge on the Bunker. Once it does so, it no longer has the Demo Charge but can now use the Detonate Demo Charge ACTION . * * Detonate Demo Charge ACTION : A model that has set Demo Charges can take an ACTION to detonate the Demo Charge. It can take the ACTION at any time during the game, and can wait one or more Turns before it does so if desired (this gives the model a chance to move away so it does not get caught in the explosion). When it finally takes the ACTION , make an Injury Roll with the IGNORE ARMOUR Keyword for every model within 3” of the Bunker. The Bunker Marker is then removed, and the terrain piece it was on is no longer considered a Bunker. Note that if a model that has placed a Demo Charge is taken Out of Action, it will not be possible to detonate t he Demo Charge. Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI VIII III IX XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios X


191 Scenarios- Trench Crusade GAME LENGTH At the end of the fifth Turn, the attacker rolls a D6. On a 1 or 2, the game ends immediately. On a 3 or more, the game will end at the end of the sixth Turn. VIC TORY CONDITIONS A player wins this scenario immediately if there are no enemy models on the battlefield, or if the opposing Warband flees (typically due to failing a Morale Check). Otherwise, the player with more Victory Points at the end of the game is the winner. Victory Points The players must keep a running tally of the Victory Points they score. Victory Points are scored for the fo llowing things: * * At the end of each Turn, the defender scores 1 VP for each trench section that is at least 8” long and has one or more defending models in it. If there are no attacking models in the trench section, the defender scores 2 VP s instead of 1. * * At the end of each Turn, the a ttacker scores: * At the end of each Turn, the attacker scores 2 VPs for each trench section that is at least 8” long and has one or more attacking models in it. If there are no defending models in the trench section, the attacker scores 3 V Ps instead of 2 * 2 VPs for each Bunker that was destroyed by a Demo Ch arge that Turn. * * At the end of the game each player scores 1 VP for each Glorious Deed they completed and 4 VP for each Bunker they control. A player controls a Bunker if there are more friendly models within 1” of it than there ar e enemy models. GLORIOUS DEEDS * * Burning Sight: A friendly model causes a Gas Cloud Marker that is more than 14” away from it to explode, and the explosion takes one or more enemy models Out of Action. * * Combustive: A friendly model causes a Gas Cloud Marker to explode, and the explosion takes two or more enemy models Out of Action. * * Deep Breaths: A friendly model causes an enemy model to be taken Out of Action by causing it to move within 6” of the centre of a Ga s Cloud Marker. * * Iron Lungs: A Warband controls a Bunker that is within 6” of the centre of a Gas Cloud Marker at the end of two consecutive Turns. A Warband controls a Bunker if there are more friendly models within 1” of it than there ar e enemy models. * * Poisonous Rage: A friendly model that is within 6” of the centre of a Gas Cloud makes a Melee Attack that takes an enemy model Out of Action. Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI VIII III IX XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios XI X


192 Scenarios- Trench Crusade XI º The High Ground Capture the high ground at all costs. Every casualty is worth it to claim this crucial tac tical location. FORCES No special restrictions apply to the models the players can include in their Forces in this scenario. THE BATTLEFIELD The players roll-off and the winner sets up the terrain for the game. This scenario uses the No Man’s Land or Decimated Ruins battlefield archetype (the player setting up the terrain decides which one to use) and requires a battlefield that is at le ast 36” by 36”. 24” 8” 8” 8” 8” 8” 8” DEPLOYMENT ZONE DEPLOYMENT ZONE MIDPOINT Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI VIII III IX XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios XI X


193 Scenarios- Trench Crusade Ob jective Markers The Markers shown on the map show high ground that the Warbands have been ordered to capture. When you set up the terrain pieces for this scenario, you must place the first five terrain pieces so that they are covering the locations where the Objective Markers will be set up, and at least 3” away from each other. In addition, you must use terrain pieces that are at least 6” tall. The terrain piece covering the central Objective Marker must be the tallest terrain piece available. The Objective Markers are set up after all of the terrain. Place each Objective Marker anywhere on the terrain piece that covers its starting position; the whole of the terrain piece is treated as the Objective for this scenario, and cannot be destroyed or removed for any reason. Control ling Objectives A player controls an Objective terrain piece if there are more friendly models on, in, or within 1” of the terrain piece than there are enemy models. If one player has any models on the terrain piece and their opponent does not, then the player with models on the terrain piece controls it even if their opponent has more models within 1” of the Objective. DEPLOYMENT The players roll-off. The winner of the roll-off chooses which Deployment Zone will be theirs. The other Deployment Zone is their opponent’s. The players then alternate deploying their models one at a time, starting with the player who has more models in their Warband (roll-off if both players have the same number of models). Models must be set up wholly within their own Deployment Zone. If a player runs out of models to set up, the other player sets up all their remaining models, one after another, until they have none left. Once the players have set up their models, deployment ends, and t he game begins. Infiltrators Infiltrators can deploy normally or by using their special deployment rules. However, if they deploy using their special deployment rules, they cannot deploy within 3” o f an Objective. TOP PRI ORITY OBJECTIVE After deployment, each player must secretly write down which one of the five Objectives is their top priority. Capturing it will earn the player additional VPs at the end of the game ( ▶ see Victo ry Conditions) . GAME LENGTH This scenario la sts five Turns. Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI VIII III IX X XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios XI


194 Scenarios- Trench Crusade VIC TORY CONDITIONS A player wins this scenario immediately if there are no enemy models on the battlefield, or if the opposing Warband flees (typically due to failing a Morale Check). Otherwise, the player with more Victory Points at the end of the game is the winner. Victory Points * * Each player scores 1 VP each time a friendly model takes an enemy model Out of Action with a Melee Attack that has the Diving C harge modifier. * * At the end of each Turn, each player scores 2 VPs for each Objectiv e they control. * * At the end of the game each player scores: * 1 VP for each Glorious Deed they completed. * 3 VPs if they control the opponent’s Top Prio rity Objective. * 3 VPs if they control their Top Prio rity Objective. GLORIOUS DEEDS * * Back to the Mud: A friendly model causes an enemy model that is on an Objective to Fall and the Fall results in it being taken Out of Action. * * Death From Above: A friendly model takes an enemy model Out of Action with a Melee Attack with the Diving C harge modifier. * * Down with You: A friendly model on an Objective uses a Ranged Attack to take Out of Action an enemy model on a different, hi gher Objective. * * Victory or Death: A Warband wins the game. This Glorious Deed is only used in campaign games and is determined after the result of the game has been decided. You do not receieve any Victory Points for acheiving this Glorious Deed, but you can award 1 Experience Point to 1 ELITE model from the Warband that has the LEADER Keyword if you have one available, and you receive Glory Points and an extra D6 for your Promotion Pool as you would normally. * * King of the Hill: A model has been on all f ive Objectives. Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI VIII III IX X Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios XII XI


195 Scenarios- Trench Crusade XII º Great War The order for general assault has been given. The skirmishes are over. It is time to wipe out your hated enemy once and for all. The Gr eat War begins. FORCES No special restrictions apply to the models the players can include in their Forces in this scenario. THE BATTLEFIELD The players roll-off and the winner sets up the terrain for the game. This scenario can use any battlefield archetype (the player setting up the terrain decides whi ch one to use). 24” DEPLOYMENT ZONE DEPLOYMENT ZONE Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI VIII III IX X XI Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios XII


196 Scenarios- Trench Crusade DEPLOYMENT The players roll-off. The winner of the roll-off chooses which Deployment Zone will be theirs. The other Deployment Zone is their opponent’s. The players then alternate deploying their models one at a time, starting with the player who has more models in their Warband (roll-off if both players have the same number of models). Models must be set up wholly within their own Deployment Zone. If a player runs out of models to set up, the other player sets up all their remaining models, one after another, until they have none left. Once the players have set up their models, deployment ends, and t he game begins. Infiltrators Infiltrators can deploy normally or by using their special de ployment rules. TO THE DEATH! Neither side takes Morale Checks during this game, and neither player can choose to flee with their Warband. GAME LENGTH This scenario la sts five Turns. VIC TORY CONDITIONS A player wins this scenario immediately if there are no enemy models on the battlefield. Otherwise, the player with more Victory Points at the end of the game is the winner. Victory Points Each player scores VPs for enemy models that were taken Out of Action equal to the model’s Cost, divided by 10 if it has a Cost in 👑 , o r b y 3 i f i t ha s a Cos t i n ☼ (rounding fractions up). Include the model’s Battlekit, Glory Items, and any other upgrades in its Cost. If a model has items worth both 👑 an d ☼ , wor k ou t eac h separately. For example, a model that had a total Cost of 100 👑 an d 6 ☼ woul d b e worth 100/10 = 10 VPs , plus 6/3 = 2VPs, for a t otal of 12 VPs. GLORIOUS DEEDS There are no Glorious Deeds in this scenario, just vi ctory or death! Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI VIII III IX X XI Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios XII


197 Scenarios- Trench Crusade MK Scenario Format IV I V VII II VI VIII III IX X XI XII Introduction The World in Flames Core Rules Comprehensive Rules Keywords Terrain Battlekit Campaign Rules Scenarios